--- Page 1 ---
77
Warbands
travel to the City
of the Damned from
all over the Old World.
They come from many races
and for many reasons but
ultimately they must all face the
dangers of the dim alleys and twisting,
winding streets of Mordheim.
Although it is great fun to fight individual battles, part
of the challenge of Mordheim is to build your
warband into a force to be reckoned with. A campaign
gives your warband the chance to gain experience and
new skills, as well as the opportunity to hire extra
warriors as its fame and fortune increases.
starting a campaign
To start a campaign you’ll need at least two players,
preferably three or more. Players may have more than
one warband, but most people prefer to run one at a
time, as this allows them to devote more of their
attention to painting, modelling and playing with
their favourite warband.
You can start a campaign as soon as two players have
recruited their warbands. New players can join the
campaign any time after that. Although the new 
warbands will be less experienced
they will soon learn new skills.
Fighting other, more powerful,
warbands will allow them
to develop more
quickly.
playing a campaign game
To start the campaign, the two players select one of
the scenarios to fight (see the Scenarios section). At
the end of each game the players work out how
much experience their warriors have earned and
how much wyrdstone the warband has
collected before returning to its
encampment.
Experience is expressed as Experience points which
Heroes and Henchmen groups receive for surviving
each game. This is covered later in the Experience
section. When a Hero or a group of Henchmen has
sufficient Experience points they receive an advance.
An advance might improve a warrior’s characteristics
profile, adding to his WS, BS, S etc, or he might gain
a special skill such as Mighty Blow or Acrobat.
After each game the warriors collect wyrdstone. This
is recorded on the warband’s roster sheet, and can
later be sold for gold, used for trading, etc. You can
recruit more warriors or buy new weapons from
traders. All this is explained in the Income and
Trading sections, later.
warband rating
Each warband has a warband rating – the
higher the rating the better the warband. The
warband rating is simply the number of warriors in it
multiplied by 5, plus their accumulated experience.
Large creatures such as Rat Ogres are worth 20 points
plus the number of Experience points they have
accumulated.
The warband’s rating changes after each game,
because surviving warriors will gain extra experience,
warriors may have been killed, new ones added, etc.
Hopefully your warband rating will go up, signifying
your increase in power!
post battle sequence
After the battle is over, both players work their way
through the following sequence. You do not have
to work through it all at once (try to do the first
three parts straight after the battle – you may
wish to consider further purchases later) but
any dice rolls must be seen by both players or
a neutral third party.
Campaigns
77


--- Page 2 ---
78
death of 
a leader
If the leader of the warband is slain, the Hero with the
next highest Leadership value takes command. He
then gains the Leader ability (although he must
continue to use his original Skill list) and can use the
Equipment list available to the leader. If there is more
than one Hero eligible to assume command, the
warrior with the most Experience points becomes the
leader. In the case of a tie roll a D6 to decide the new
leader. Note that you may not hire a new leader for
your warband. 
In the case of Undead warbands, the death of the
Vampire means that the warband’s Necromancer must
take over. If the warband doesn’t include one, the
spells that hold the restless dead together unravel,
and the warband collapses into a pile of bones. You
can buy a Vampire after the next game, at which point
the Necromancer will step down (whether he wants
to or not) and lose the Leader skill.
If the leader of a Sisters of Sigmar, Possessed or
Carnival of Chaos warband dies then their successor
will be entitled to learn to use magic in their stead.
The new leader may roll for a  prayer/spell from the
appropriate list, instead of rolling on the Advance
table, the first time they are eligible for an advance.
After this they are considered to be a wizard/use
prayers as appropriate for their warband and use the
Advance table as normal. 
Campaigns
1 Injuries. Determine the extent of injuries for
each warrior who is out of action at the end of
the game. See the Serious Injuries, on page 118.
2 Allocate experience. Heroes and Henchmen
groups gain experience for surviving battles. See
the Experience and Scenarios sections for details.
3 Roll on the Exploration chart. See the Income
section for details.
4 Sell Wyrdstone. This can only be done once per
post battle sequence.
5 Check available veterans. Roll to see how much
Experience worth of veterans is available for hire.
You don’t have to commit to hiring any at this
point. 
6 Make rarity rolls and buy rare items. Make
rolls for any rare items you intend to buy and pay
for them. These items go into the warband’s
stash.
7 Look for Dramatis Personae. If you want to hire
any.
8 Hire new recruits & buy common items. New
recruits come equipped with their free dagger
and may be bought common items. This is done
in any order and may be done several times. Note
that newly hired recruits cannot buy rare items.
They can, however, be equipped with rare items
if there are any in the warband’s stash in stage 9.
9 Reallocate equipment. Swap equipment
between models as desired (provided they are
eligible to use it). 
10 Update your warband rating. You are now
ready to fight again.
disbanding warbands
You may disband your old warband at the end of any
game and start again with a new one. All the warriors
in the original warband and any equipment and other
benefits they acquired are lost. You can also dismiss
any warrior in your warband at any time.
death of 
a warrior
When a warrior is killed (Hero or Henchman) all his
weapons and equipment are lost. This is very
important, so be clear about it from the start. It is not
possible to reallocate a warrior’s weapons or
equipment once he is dead.
78


--- Page 3 ---
79
Campaigns
buying new equipment 
between games
As explained in the Trading section, warriors may
purchase new equipment and armaments using the
warband’s treasury. Warriors can also swap equipment
between themselves. Alternatively, old equipment can
be hoarded and re-used at a later date.
Weapons and armour purchased, swapped or taken
from storage for your warband must be of an
appropriate type for the warrior, as indicated by the
warband lists. Record any changes to the warrior’s 
equipment on
the roster
sheet. 
serious injuries
During a game some warriors will be taken out of
action and removed from play. At that time it doesn’t
matter whether the warrior is dead, unconscious,
injured or just playing dead – in game terms he is no
longer capable of fighting in the battle which is all that
matters. 
When you are playing a campaign it matters a great
deal what happens to warriors who are taken out of
action! They might recover completely and be ready
to fight in the next battle, or they might have
sustained injuries. Worst of all they might die, or be so
badly injured that they have to retire.
When a Henchman receives a serious injury this is
treated differently than if a Hero received one (this is
to represent the greater effect that losing a Hero
would have on your warband). Working out the
extent of a Henchman’s injuries is very simple. You
will need to roll on the chart opposite to determine
what has happened to your Hero. The chart covers a
whole range of injuries and random things that might
befall your warrior. Bear in mind that only Heroes
who are taken out of action are obliged to roll on this
chart.
HENCHMEN WITH SERIOUS INJURIES
Henchmen who are out of action at the
end of the battle are removed
permanently from the roster sheet
on a D6 roll of 1-2. They have
either suffered severe injuries,
died of their wounds, or
decided to quit the warband.
On a roll of 3-6 they can fight
in the next battle as normal.
HEROES WITH 
SERIOUS INJURIES
After a battle some of
your Heroes may be
taken out of action.
You will need to
determine the extent
of their injuries before
the next game.
To use the Heroes’
Serious Injuries chart
opposite, roll two D6.
The first dice roll
represents ‘tens’ and
the second ‘units’, so
that a roll of 1 and 5
is 15, a roll of 3 and
6 is 36, etc. This type
of dice roll is
referred to as a 
‘D66 roll’.
79

--- Page 4 ---
41-55 FULL RECOVERY
The warrior has been knocked unconscious, or
suffers a light wound from which he makes a full
recovery.
56 BITTER ENMITY
The warrior makes a full physical recovery, but is
psychologically scarred by his experience. From now
on the warrior hates the following (roll a D6):
D6 Result
1-3 The individual who caused the injury. If it was
a Henchman, he hates the enemy leader
instead.
4 The leader of the warband that caused the
injury.
5 The entire warband of the warrior responsible
for the injury.
6 All warbands of that type.
61 CAPTURED
The warrior regains consciousness and finds himself
held captive by the other warband.
He may be ransomed at a price set by the captor or
exchanged for one of their warband who is being held
captive.
Captives may be sold to slavers at a price of D6x5 gc.
Undead may kill their captive and gain a new Zombie.
The Possessed may sacrifice the prisoner. The leader
of the warband will gain +1 Experience if they do so.
Captives who are exchanged or ransomed retain all
their weapons, armour and equipment; if captives are
sold, killed or turned to Zombies, their weaponry, etc,
is retained by their captors.
62-63 HARDENED
The warrior survives and becomes inured to the
horrors of Mordheim. From now on he is immune to
fear.
64 HORRIBLE SCARS
The warrior causes fear from now on.
65 SOLD TO THE PITS
The warrior wakes up in the infamous fighting pits of
Cutthroat’s Haven and must fight against a Pit Fighter.
See the Hired Swords section for full rules for Pit
Fighters.
Roll to see which side charges, and fight the battle as
normal. If the warrior loses, roll to see whether he is
dead or injured (ie, a D66 roll of 11-35). If he is not
dead, he is thrown out of the fighting pits without his
armour and weapons and may re-join his warband. 
If the warrior wins he gains 50 gc, +2 Experience and
is free to rejoin his warband with all his weapons and
equipment.
66 SURVIVES AGAINST THE ODDS 
The warrior survives and rejoins his warband. He
gains +1 Experience.
11-15 DEAD
The warrior is dead and his body is abandoned in the
dark alleys of Mordheim, never to be found again. All
the weapons and equipment he carried are lost.
Remove him from the warband’s roster.
16-21 MULTIPLE INJURIES
The warrior is not dead but has suffered a lot of
wounds. Roll D6 times on this table. Re-roll any
‘Dead’, ‘Captured’ and further ‘Multiple Injuries’
results.
22 LEG WOUND
The warrior’s leg is broken. He suffers a -1 Movement
characteristic penalty from now on.
23 ARM WOUND
Roll again: 1 = Severe arm wound. The arm must be
amputated. The warrior may only use a single one-
handed weapon from now on. 2-6 = Light wound.
The warrior must miss the next game.
24 MADNESS
Roll a D6. On a 1-3 the warrior suffers from stupidity;
on 4-6 the warrior suffers from frenzy  from now on
(see the Psychology section for details). 
25 SMASHED LEG
Roll again: 1 = The warrior may not run any more but
he may still charge. 2-6 = The warrior misses the next
game.
26 CHEST WOUND
The warrior has been badly wounded in the chest. He
recovers but is weakened by the injury so his
Toughness is reduced by -1.
31 BLINDED IN ONE EYE
The warrior survives but loses the sight in one eye;
randomly determine which. A character that loses an
eye has his Ballistic Skill reduced by -1. If the warrior
is subsequently blinded in his remaining good eye he
must retire from the warband.
32 OLD BATTLE WOUND
The warrior survives, but his wound will prevent him
from fighting if you roll a 1 on a D6 at the start of any
battle. Roll at the start of each battle from now on.
33 NERVOUS CONDITION
The warrior’s nervous system has been damaged. His
Initiative is permanently reduced by -1.
34 HAND INJURY
The warrior’s hand is badly injured. His Weapon Skill
is permanently reduced by -1.
35 DEEP WOUND
The warrior has suffered a serious wound and must
miss the next D3 games while he is recovering. He
may do nothing at all while recovering.
36 ROBBED
The warrior manages to escape, but all his weapons,
armour and equipment are lost.
Heroes’ serious injuries chart (roll D66)
80
Campaigns

--- Page 5 ---
Campaigns
81
As warriors take part in
battles, those who survive
become more experienced,
and improve their battle
skills. This is represented in
campaigns by Experience
points.
Warriors earn Experience
points when they take part in
a battle. Once a warrior has
enough points he gains an
advance. This takes the form of an 
increased characteristic or a new skill. Warriors who
survive long enough may progress to become great
Heroes, with many skills that they have picked up
during their long and glorious fighting career.
When warriors are recruited, some of them already
have some experience. The warband lists detail how
many Experience points different warriors begin
with. Record these on your warband roster sheet by
ticking the right number of boxes. No extra advances
are gained for this
experience. It simply
represents the
experience the
warriors have
accumulated
before the
warband is
formed.
earning experience
The Experience points warriors earn depend on the
scenario. Different scenarios have different objectives
and consequently warriors can earn experience in
slightly different ways.
Extra Experience points are always added to the
fighter’s total after the game is over, though it is a
good idea to keep a record of the opponents your
warrior puts out of action during the battle, as this
often affects the experience they gain.
If you look through the scenarios you will notice that
warriors always earn +1 Experience point for
surviving a battle. They earn this even if they are
injured – so long as they live to fight again!
The Scenarios section includes details of how many
Experience points are earned for each scenario.
experience advances
As warriors earn more Experience points they are
entitled to make Advance rolls . The warband roster
sheet shows how much experience a Hero or a
Henchman group must accumulate before making a
further roll. When the accumulated experience
reaches a box that has thick borders, the warrior may
make an Advance roll. The roll(s) must be taken
immediately after the game in which the advance was
earned, while both players are present to witness the
result. Note that Henchmen gain experience as a
group, and consequently all the warriors in one
group gain the same advance.
underdogs
When a warband fights against an enemy warband
with a higher rating, its warriors earn extra
Experience points as shown on the table below. The
higher the opposing warband’s rating the more
points the underdog earns.
Difference in
Warband rating Experience Bonus
0-50 None
51-75 +1
76-100 +2
101-150 +3
151-300 +4
301+ +5
81
Experience


--- Page 6 ---
82
advance rolls
Make Advance rolls straight after the battle so both
players can witness the result. Roll 2D6 and consult the
appropriate tables below.
Heroes
2D6 Result
2-5 New Skill. Select one of the Skill tables
available to the Hero and pick a skill. If he is a
wizard he may choose to randomly generate a
new spell instead of a skill. See the Magic
section.
6 Characteristic Increase. 
Roll again: 1-3 = +1 Strength; 4-6 = +1 Attack.
7 Characteristic Increase.
Choose either +1 WS or +1 BS.
8 Characteristic Increase.
Roll again: 1-3 = +1 Initiative; 
4-6 = +1 Leadership.
9 Characteristic Increase.
Roll again: 1-3 = +1 Wound; 
4-6 = +1 Toughness.
10-12 New Skill. Select one of the Skill tables
available to the Hero and pick a skill. If he is a
wizard he may choose to randomly generate a
new spell instead of a skill. 
Henchmen
Henchmen never add more than +1 point to any of their
initial characteristics. If the dice roll indicates an increase
in a characteristic which has already been increased (or
is at its racial maximum), roll again until an unincreased
charateristic is rolled. All warriors in the group gain the
same advance.
2D6 Result
2-4 Advance . +1 Initiative.
5 Advance. +1 Strength.
6-7 Advance . Choose either +1 BS or +1WS.
8 Advance. +1 Attack.
9 Advance. +1 Leadership.
10-12 The lad’s got talent. One model in the group
becomes a Hero. If you already have the
maximum number of Heroes, roll again. The
new Hero remains the same Henchman type (eg,
a Ghoul stays as a Ghoul) and starts with the
same experience the Henchman had, with all his
characteristic increases intact. You may choose
two skill lists available to Heroes in your
warband. These are the skill types your new
Hero can choose from when he gains new skills.
He can immediately make one roll on the Heroes
Advance table. The remaining members of the
Henchmen group, if any, roll again for the
advance that they have earned, re-rolling any
results of 10-12.
new skills
There are several types of skill and each has a separate
list. You may not choose the same skill twice for the
same warrior. The skills a Hero may have are
restricted by the warband he belongs to and what
type of Hero he is. 
To select a new skill for a Hero, pick the type of skill
you want from those available, then choose which
skill has been learned.
characteristic increase
Characteristics for certain warriors may not be
increased beyond the maximum limits shown on the
following profiles. If a characteristic is at its
maximum, take the other option or roll again if you
can only increase one characteristic. If both are
already at their racial maximum, you may increase any
other (that is not already at its racial maximum) by +1
instead. Note that this is the only way to gain the
maximum Movement for some races. Remember that
Henchmen can only add +1 to any characteristic.
HUMAN (Witch Hunters, Flagellants, Mercenaries,
Dregs, Freelancers, Warlocks, Pit Fighters, Magisters,
Darksouls, Mutants, Brethren, Warrior Priests,
Zealots, Sisters of Sigmar, etc.)
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Human 4 66443649
ELF (Elf Ranger Hired Sword)
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
E l f 57744394 1 0
DWARF (Troll Slayer Hired Sword)
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
D w a r f 37645354 1 0
OGRE (Ogre Bodyguard Hired Sword)
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Ogre 6 65555659
HALFLING (Halfling Scout Hired Sword)
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Halfling 4 5733394 1 0
BEASTMAN
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
G o r 476454649
POSSESSED
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Possessed 6 8066475 1 0
VAMPIRE
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Vampire 6 8676494 1 0
SKAVEN
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Skaven 6 66443747
GHOUL
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Ghoul 5 52453557
Campaigns
82

--- Page 7 ---
83
Campaigns
83
Skill lists
The Skill lists are used to pick skills earned as advances. Your warrior is restricted to specific Skill lists
depending upon his warband type and what kind of warrior he is. Each warband entry includes a list
of skills available to the Heroes of that particular warband.
All warbands have their own strengths and weaknesses which relate to the skills available to them.
For example, the Possessed are good fighters and very strong, but they are not very academically
minded.
Some warbands also have access to a unique Skill list, which is clearly indicated in their entry.
combat skills
Strike to Injure. The warrior can land his blows with
uncanny accuracy. Add +1 to all injury rolls caused by
the model in hand-to-hand combat.
Combat Master. The warrior is able to take on
several opponents at once. If he fights against more
than one enemy at a time, he gains an extra Attack in
each hand-to-hand combat phase as long as he is
fighting two or more enemy models. In addition, the
warrior is immune to ‘All Alone’ tests.
Weapons Training. A warrior with this skill is adept
at using many different weapons. He may use any
hand-to-hand combat weapon he comes across, not
just those in his equipment options. 
Web of Steel. Few can match the ability of this
warrior. He fights with great skill, weaving a web of
steel around him. The model gains +1 to all his rolls
on Critical Hit tables in hand-to-hand combat.
Expert Swordsman. This warrior has been expertly
taught in the art of swordsmanship. He may re-roll all
missed attacks if he is using a sword in the hand-to-
hand phase of the turn that he charges. Note that this
only applies when they are armed with normal
swords or weeping blades, and not with double-
handed swords or any other weapons. 
Step Aside. The warrior has a natural ability to avoid
injury in combat. Each time he suffers a wound in
close combat he may make an additional saving throw
of 5+. This save is never modified and is taken after
all other armour saves.
shooting skills
Quick Shot. The warrior may shoot twice per turn
with a bow or crossbow (but not a crossbow pistol).
Pistolier. The warrior is an expert at using all kinds
of pistols. If he is equipped with a brace of pistols of
any type (including crossbow pistols), he may fire
twice in the Shooting phase (though note that normal
reloading rules apply). If he has a single pistol then he
may fire it in the same turn it was reloaded. 
Eagle Eyes. The warrior’s sight is exceptionally keen.
He adds +6" to the range of any missile weapon he is
using.
Weapons Expert. The warrior has been trained to
use some of the more unusual weapons of the known
world. He may use any missile weapon he comes
across, not just the weapons available from his
warband’s list.
Nimble. The warrior may move and fire with
weapons that are normally only used if the firer has
not moved. Note that this skill cannot be combined
with the Quick Shot skill.
Trick Shooter. The warrior can shoot through the
tiniest gap without it affecting his aim. He ignores all
modifiers for cover when using missile weapons.
Hunter. The warrior is an expert at getting his
weapon loaded and ready. He may fire each turn with
a handgun or Hochland long rifle.
Knife-Fighter. The warrior is an unrivalled expert at
using throwing knives and throwing stars. He can
throw a maximum of three of these missiles in his
shooting phase and may divide his shots between any
targets within range as he wishes. Note that this skill
cannot be combined with the Quick Shot skill.

--- Page 8 ---
84
Campaigns
84
academic skills
Battle Tongue. This skill may only be chosen by a
leader. The warrior has drilled his warband to follow
short barked commands. This increases the range of
his Leader ability by 6". Note that Undead leaders may
not use this skill.
Sorcery. This skill may only be taken by Heroes
capable of casting spells. A warrior with this skill gains
+1 to his rolls to see whether he can cast spells
successfully or not. Note that Sisters of Sigmar and
Warrior-Priests may not use this skill.
Streetwise. A warrior with this skill has good contacts
and knows where to purchase rare items. He may add
+2 to the roll that determines his chances of finding
such items (see the Trading section).
Haggle. The warrior knows all the tricks of
bargaining and haggling. He may deduct 2D6 gold
crowns from the price of any single item (to a
minimum cost of 1gc) once per post battle sequence.
Arcane Lore. Witch Hunters, Sisters of Sigmar and
Warrior-Priests may not have this skill. Any warrior
with this skill may learn Lesser Magic if he owns a
Tome of Magic.
Wyrdstone Hunter. The warrior has an uncanny
ability to find hidden shards of wyrdstone. If a Hero
with this skill is searching the ruins in the exploration
phase you may re-roll one dice when rolling on the
Exploration chart. The second result stands.
Warrior Wizard. This skill may only be taken by
spellcasters. The mental powers of the wizard allow
him to wear armour and cast spells.
strength skills
Mighty Blow. The warrior knows how to use his
strength to maximum effect and has a +1 Strength
bonus in close combat (excluding pistols). As his
Strength is used for close combat weapons, the bonus
applies to all such weapons.
Pit Fighter. The warrior has learned how to fight in
enclosed spaces from his time in the dangerous
fighting pits of the Empire. He is an expert at fighting
in confined areas and adds +1 to his WS and +1 to
his Attacks if he is fighting inside buildings or ruins.
It’s a good idea to define which bits of your terrain
collection count as ‘buildings or ruins’ at the start of
a battle to avoid confusion later. 
Resilient. The warrior is covered in battle scars.
Deduct -1 Strength from all hits against him in close
combat. This does not affect armour save modifiers.
Fearsome. Such is the reputation and physique of the
model that he causes fear in opposing models.
Strongman. The warrior is capable of great feats of
strength. He may use a double-handed weapon
without the usual penalty of always striking last. Work
out order of battle as you would with other weapons.
Unstoppable Charge. When he charges, the warrior
is almost impossible to halt. He adds +1 to his
Weapon Skill when charging.
speed skills
Leap. The warrior may leap D6" in the movement
phase in addition to his normal movement. He may
move and leap, run and leap, or charge and leap, but
he can only leap once per turn.
A leaping warrior may jump over opposing man-sized
models, including enemies, and obstacles 1" high,
without penalty.
The leap may also be used to leap over gaps, but in
this case you must commit the warrior to making the
leap before rolling the dice to see how far he jumps.
If he fails to make it all the way across, he falls
through the gap (see page 28).
Sprint. The warrior may triple his Movement rate
when he runs or charges, rather than doubling it as
normal.
Acrobat. The warrior is incredibly supple and agile.
He may fall or jump from a height of up to 12"
without taking any damage if he passes a single
Initiative test, and can re-roll failed Diving Charge
rolls. He can still only make a diving charge from a
height of up to 6".
Lightning Reflexes. If the warrior is charged he will
‘strike first’ against those that charged that turn. As
the charger(s) will also normally ‘strike first’ (for
charging), the order of attack between the charger(s)
and the warrior with this skill will be determined by
comparing Initiative values. 
Jump Up. The warrior can regain his footing in an
instant, springing to his feet immediately if he is
knocked down. The warrior may ignore knocked
down results when rolling for injuries, unless he is
knocked down because of a successful save from
wearing a helmet or because he has the No Pain
special rule.
Dodge. A warrior with this skill is nimble and as fast
as quicksilver. He can avoid any hits from a missile
weapon on a D6 roll of 5+. Note that this roll is taken
against missiles as soon as a hit is scored to see
whether the warrior dodges it or not, before rolling to
wound, and before any effects from other skills or
equipment (such as lucky charms).
Scale Sheer Surfaces. A warrior with this skill can
scale even the highest wall or fence with ease. He can
climb up or down a height equal to twice his normal
Movement, and does not need to make Initiative tests
when doing so.

--- Page 9 ---
Scenarios
8585 8585
pre-battle sequence
Although you can simply decide with your opponent
which scenario you want to play, most players prefer
to generate their scenarios randomly. To do this, work
your way through the following sequence before the
battle. 
1 The player with the lowest warband rating rolls
on the Scenario table to determine which
scenario is played. In the scenarios where there
is an attacker and a defender, the same player
may choose which he is.
2 Roll for warriors with old battle wounds to see
whether they can take part or
not.
3 Set up the terrain and warbands
according to the rules for the
scenario you are playing. The more buildings
the better, so you should place all the terrain
you have.
scenario table
2D6 Result
2 The player with the lower warband rating
may choose which scenario is played.
3 Play Scenario 5: Street Fight.
4 Play Scenario 7: Hidden Treasure.
5 Play Scenario 3: Wyrdstone Hunt.
6 Play Scenario 8: Occupy.
7 Play Scenario 2: Skirmish.
8 Play Scenario 4: Breakthrough.
9 Play Scenario 9: Surprise Attack.
10 Play Scenario 6: Chance Encounter.
11 Play Scenario 1: Defend the Find.
12 The player with the lower warband rating
may choose which scenario is played.
Starting the game


--- Page 10 ---
86 8686
Scenarios
starting the game
The attacker has the first turn.
ending the game
If at the end of the defender’s turn the
attacker has more standing models within 6" of the
objective than the defender, the attacker wins.
Alternatively, when one of the warbands fails its Rout
test the game ends.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or Henchman group survives
the battle they gain +1 Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The leader of the winning
warband gains +1 extra Experience.
+1 Per Enemy Out of Action. Any Hero earns +1
Experience for each enemy he puts out of action.
wyrdstone
One shard of wyrdstone for each Hero of either
warband who is inside the objective building at the
end of the game (up to a maximum of three shards
per warband).
Often a warband finds a building with a hoard of
wyrdstone or other treasure inside, only to be
challenged by a rival warband. This usually leads to
conflict as it is unlikely that either side will be willing
to give up the wealth easily.
terrain
Each player takes it in turn to place a piece of terrain,
either a ruined building, tower, or other similar item.
We suggest that the terrain is set up within an area
roughly 4' x 4'. The first building should be placed in
the centre of the table, and the objective of the
scenario is to take control of this building.
warbands
The warband with the lowest number of warriors in it
is automatically the defender. If both sides are equal,
roll to decide.
The defender is deployed first inside or within 6" of
the objective building. The attacking warband is
deployed within 6" of any table edge. Note that you
can split the warband to enter from different edges if
you wish.
In the vastness of the Mordheim ruins there is always
the risk of running into a rival warband. While two
groups sometimes pass each other without a fight,
more often than not there is a vicious battle amongst
the ruins. If a warband can drive their rivals away, they
will have a larger area in which to search for
wyrdstone.
terrain
Each player takes it in turn to place a piece of terrain,
either a ruined building, tower, or other similar item.
We suggest that the terrain is set up within an area
roughly 4' x 4'.
warbands
Each player rolls a dice. Whoever rolls highest
chooses who sets up first. The first player then
chooses which table edge to set up on, placing all his
warriors within 8" of that edge. His opponent then
sets up within 8" of the opposite edge. 
starting the game
Both players roll a D6. The higher scoring player takes
the first turn.
ending the game
When one of the warbands fails its Rout test, the game
ends. The routing warband loses and their opponents
win.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or a Henchman group survives
the battle they gain +1 Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The leader of the winning
warband gains +1 extra Experience.
+1 Per Enemy Out of Action . Any Hero earns +1
Experience for each enemy model he puts out of
action.
Scenario 1: defend the find
Scenario 2: skirmish


--- Page 11 ---
8787 87
Scenarios
87
Scattered in the ruins of Mordheim are innumerable
tiny shards of priceless wyrdstone. It often happens
that two warbands come upon the same area and only
a battle can determine who will pick the spoils.
In this scenario, warbands encounter each other
while scavenging in the same ruined warehouse,
vault, temple or other such potentially rich building.
terrain
Each player takes it in turn to place a piece of terrain,
either a ruined building, tower, or other similar item.
We suggest that the terrain is set up within an area
roughly 4' x 4'.
special rules
Once you have placed the terrain, put some
Wyrdstone counters on the tabletop to represent
where the shards are. There will be D3+1 counters in
total.
Each player takes it in turn to place a counter. Roll a
D6 to see which player goes first. The counters must
be placed more than 10" from the edge of the table
and at least 6" away from each other. Note that
counters are placed before deciding which edge the
warbands will play from, so it is a good idea to put
counters towards the middle of the table. Warriors
can pick up the counters simply by moving into
contact with them. A warrior can carry any
amount of wyrdstone without any penalty.
Warriors cannot transfer their wyrdstone to
another warrior. If the warrior who is
carrying a counter is taken out of action ,
place the counter on the table where he fell.
warbands
Both players roll a D6 to see who deploys
first. Whoever rolls highest sets up first,
within 8" of the table edge of his choice. His
opponent then sets up within 8" of the
opposite edge.
starting the game
Both players roll a D6. The highest scoring
player takes the first turn.
ending the game
The game ends when one warband fails its
Rout test. The routers automatically lose.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or a Henchman
group survives the battle they gain +1
Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The leader of the
winning warband gains +1 Experience.
+1 per Wyrdstone Counter. If a Hero or
Henchman is carrying a Wyrdstone counter
at the end of the battle he receives +1
Experience.
+1 Per Enemy Out of Action. Any Hero
earns +1 Experience for each enemy he puts
out of action.
wyrdstone
Your warriors earn one shard of wyrdstone
for each counter still in their possession at
the end of the battle.
Scenario 3: wyrdstone hunt


--- Page 12 ---
88 8888
Scenarios
88
When news of a huge deposit of wyrdstone starts
circulating, warbands will mount expeditions to
unearth the wealth. However, their rivals often try to
block them, eager to claim all the wyrdstone for
themselves.
terrain
Each player takes it in turn to place a piece of terrain,
either a ruined building, tower, or other similar item.
We suggest that the terrain is set up within an area
roughly 4' x 4'.
warbands
Each player rolls a dice. Whoever scores higher
decides which table edge the attacker sets up on.
The attacker sets up first, within 8" of his table edge.
The defender sets up anywhere on the table as long as
all his warriors are at least 14" away from any attacker.
starting the game
The attacker has the first turn.
ending the game
If one of the warbands fails a Rout test, the game ends
immediately and the routing warband loses. 
If the attacker manages to move two or more standing
warriors to within 2" of the defender’s table edge,
they have broken through and he wins the game.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or a Henchman group survives
the battle, they gain +1 Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The leader of the winning
warband gains +1 Experience.
+1 Per Enemy Out of Action. Any Hero earns +1
Experience for each enemy he puts out of action.
+1 Breaking Through. Any warrior earns +1
Experience for breaking through enemy lines. If the
warrior is a Henchman, then the whole group gains
+1 Experience.
Scenario 5: street fight
Often two warbands will come face to face with each
other in the narrow streets of Mordheim. Sometimes
they pass each other without incident but more often
the meeting ends in bloodshed. 
terrain
Set up all the buildings into a single street, with no
gaps along the sides. Behind the buildings are
impassable ruins, although the buildings themselves
are still accessible. The only way out is along the
street. The street may be as winding as you like and
should not be too narrow to fight in, but can have
narrow bottlenecks at some points. We suggest that
the terrain is set up within an area roughly 4' x 4'.
set-up
Both players roll a D6 to see who sets up first.
Whoever rolls highest chooses whether to deploy first
or second. The warbands are deployed within 6" of
opposite ends of the street.
special rules
Neither warband can backtrack down the street to
leave the battlefield via their own edge.
starting the game
Roll a D6 to see who has the first turn.
ending the game
When one of the warbands manages to move all its
remaining warriors out of the street via the opposing
edge, the game ends and that player is victorious.
Alternatively a warband which fails a Rout test loses
the game.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or a Henchman group survives
the battle they gain +1 Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The leader of the winning
warband gains +1 Experience.
+1 Per Enemy Out of Action. Any Hero earns +1
Experience for each enemy he puts out of action.
+1 Escaping. The first Hero from either side (not
both!) who exits via the opposing table edge gains
+1 Experience.
Scenario 4: breakthrough


--- Page 13 ---
8989 89
Scenarios
89
Both warbands have completed their daily search of
the ruins and are on their way back to their
encampment when they run into each other. Neither
side was expecting a fight, and the warband that
reacts the quickest has the advantage.
terrain
Each player takes it in turn to place a piece of terrain,
either a ruined building, tower, or other similar item.
We suggest that the terrain is set up within an area
roughly 4' x 4'.
set-up
1. Each player rolls a D6. The player with the higher
score can choose to deploy first or second.
2. The first player to deploy sets up his entire
warband in deployment zone A as shown below. 
He may choose which quarter
of the table to nominate as
deployment zone A.
3. The second warband
can then be set up in
deployment zone B,
but no model
may be set up
within 14" of
any enemy
model.
starting the game
Each player rolls a D6 and adds the normal Initiative
of their leader. The player with the higher score goes
first.
special rules
Each warband is carrying D3 shards of wyrdstone at
the beginning of the battle. Mark down the number
each warband has. 
ending the game
The battle ends when one warband fails a Rout test.
The routing warband loses.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or a Henchman group survives
the battle then they gain +1 Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The leader of the winning
warband gains +1 Experience.
+1 Per Enemy Out of Action. Any Hero earns +1
Experience for each enemy he puts out of action.
wyrdstone
Both warbands gain all the wyrdstone they were
carrying at the beginning of the battle, minus the
number of their own Heroes that were taken out of
action during the game, down to a minimum of zero.
In addition, they gain one extra shard of wyrdstone
for each enemy Hero they take out of action, up to 
the maximum number of shards the
opposing warband was carrying at the
beginning of the battle. 
Scenario 6: chance encounter


--- Page 14 ---
90 9090
Scenarios
There is a rumour that one of the ruined buildings
has a concealed cellar with a treasure chest hidden in
it. Two rival warbands have heard about the cellar and
are now searching the area. Who knows what they will
find?
terrain
Each player takes it in turn to place a piece of terrain,
either a ruined building, tower, or other similar item.
We suggest that the terrain is set up within an area
roughly 4' x 4'.
set-up
Both players roll a D6 and whoever rolls highest
chooses which warband sets up first. This warband is
deployed within 8" of any table edge the player
chooses. His opponent sets up within 8" of the
opposite side.
special rules
All the warriors (not animals!) in each warband know
roughly what they are looking for and must inspect
the buildings to find the treasure. Each time a warrior
enters a building which has not been previously
searched by either side roll 2D6. On a score of 12, he
has found the treasure.  Buildings in the deployment
zones are not searched (since they have already
been thoroughly ransacked) and each building
may only be searched once. 
If you have not scored 12 with any roll when
there is only one building left to search, the
treasure will automatically be found there. After
finding the treasure chest, the warrior must then
take it to safety via his own table edge. Carrying
the treasure chest will slow the warrior carrying
it to half speed. Two or more models may carry
the chest without any penalty. You may use the
treasure chest model to represent the chest. If
the carrier is put out of action, place the treasure
chest at the spot where he fell. Any man-sized
model may pick it up by moving into base
contact with it. 
Whoever recovers the chest may roll on the
following chart after the game to see what the
chest contains. Note that you roll for each item
separately, apart from the gold crowns, which are
always automatically found. For example, roll to
see if you find any wyrdstone – you need a 5+ to
find it. Then roll to see if you find the armour,
and so on. This can make the chest a very
valuable acquisition – however, it could also
mean that your warband has risked death for
only three gold crowns!
ITEMS D6 ROLL REQUIRED TO FIND
3D6 gc Automatic
D3 pieces of wyrdstone 5+
Suit of light armour 4+
Sword 3+
D3 gems worth 10 gc each 5+
starting the game
Roll a D6. The player rolling highest has the first turn.
ending the game
When one warband gets the treasure to safety, or a
warband fails a Rout test, the game ends. The
victorious warband then gains the treasure chest.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or a Henchman group survives
the battle they gain +1 Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The leader of the winning
warband gains +1 Experience.
+1 Per Enemy Out of Action. Any Hero earns +1
Experience for each enemy he puts out of action.
+2 For Finding the Chest. If a Hero finds the
treasure chest he earns +2 Experience.
Scenario 7: hidden treasure
90

--- Page 15 ---
9191 91
Scenarios
This scenario takes place in a part of Mordheim where
the buildings are bursting with shards of wyrdstone
and other wealth. Taking and holding these buildings
means that your warband gains rich pickings.
Unfortunately, your opponent has the same idea.
terrain
Each player takes it in turn to place a piece of terrain,
either a ruined building, tower, or other similar item.
We suggest that the terrain is set up within an area
roughly 4' x 4'.
warbands
Each player rolls a D6. The player with the highest
score decides which warband sets up first. The first
player chooses the table edge he wants to set up on,
and places all his warriors within 8" of it. His
opponent then sets up within 8" of the opposite edge.
starting the game
Both players roll a D6. The player with the higher
score takes the first turn.
special rules
The objective is to capture
D3+2 of the buildings on
the tabletop. Mark these
buildings, starting with the
one closest to the centre of
the table, working your way
outwards to the next nearest
building. A building is
occupied if at least one of
your standing models is
inside and no enemy models
are inside the building.
ending the game
There is no need to take any
Rout tests – as the game lasts
for a maximum of eight
turns. If one warband
voluntarily routs, the game
ends and the winning
warband is considered to
occupy all of the buildings
on the table.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or a
Henchman group survives
they gain +1 Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The
leader of the warband who
controls the highest number
of buildings at the end of the
battle gains +1 Experience. 
If both sides occupy the
same number of buildings,
then the battle is considered
to be a draw and neither
leader gains this bonus.
+1 Per Enemy Out of
Action. Any Hero earns +1
Experience for each enemy
he puts out of action.
Scenario 8: occupy
91

--- Page 16 ---
929292
Scenarios
One warband is out searching the ruins of Mordheim
for loot when it is attacked by an enemy warband. The
defenders are spread thinly and must muster a
defence quickly to drive off their attackers.
terrain
Starting with the attacker, each player takes it in turn
to place a piece of terrain, either a ruined building,
tower, or other similar item. We suggest that the
terrain is set up within an area roughly 4' x 4'.
set-up
1. The defending player rolls a D6 for each Hero
and Henchman group in his warband, in any
order he chooses. On a 1-3, they are elsewhere in
the ruins and turn up later as reinforcements. On
a 4-6 they are deployed at the start of the game.
Note that at least one Hero or Henchmen group
will be present at the start. If all roll 1-3, the last
Hero or Henchmen group will automatically be
deployed at the start of the battle.
2. The defender deploys his available Heroes and
Henchmen on the table. No model may be closer
than 8" to another model, as the warband is
spread out wide to search the ruins. No model
may be deployed closer than 8" to a table edge.
3. The attacker deploys his whole warband within 8"
of a random table edge, as shown below. He may
choose which edge to nominate as ‘1’ before
rolling to see where he deploys.
starting the game
The attacker always
gets the first
turn.
special rules
The defender, at the start of his second and
subsequent turns, may roll a D6 for each of his
Henchmen groups or Heroes not yet on the table. On
a 4+ they move on in the movement phase from a
random table edge as shown below – roll a D6. All
reinforcements for that turn arrive from the same
edge and may charge on the turn in which they arrive.
ending the game
The game ends when one warband fails a Rout test.
The routing warband loses.
experience
+1 Survives. If a Hero or a Henchman group survives
the battle they gain +1 Experience.
+1 Winning Leader. The leader of the winning
warband gains +1 Experience.
+1 Per Enemy Out of
Action. A Hero earns
+1 Experience for
each enemy he
puts out of
action.
Scenario 9: surprise attack
92

--- Page 17 ---
Income
9393 9393
At the end of each
battle, a warband may roll
on the Exploration chart.
This is done as soon as a game
is over so that players can
witness each other’s dice rolls. As
you can see from the chart, a
warband that is just starting out has little chance of
finding the more obscure places in Mordheim.
However, a warband will make more discoveries as it
goes along thanks to its better equipment and
accumulated skills.
Roll a D6 for each Hero in your warband who survives
without going out of action . This represents the
warband’s efforts to unearth wyrdstone. Do not roll
for any Heroes who went out of action during the
battle; they are taken back to the warband’s
encampment to recuperate instead. So, for example,
if your warband includes four Heroes who all survived
the last battle, you can roll four dice. If you won your
last game, you may roll one extra dice. Add the results
of the dice together and consult the Exploration chart
to see how many shards of wyrdstone your warband
has found.
Do not roll for Henchmen. This does not mean that
they don’t search the ruins, but instead represents the
efforts of the Heroes in coordinating the search
parties. In addition, some Henchmen like Zombies or
Warhounds (for obvious reasons) are not particularly
useful when it comes to looking for wyrdstone.
rolling multiples
As well as finding shards of wyrdstone, the warband
can come across unusual places or encounter
inhabitants of the ruined city. If you roll two or more
of the same number while searching, you have found
an unusual building or encountered something out of
ordinary. Consult the chart and refer to the
appropriate entry in the Exploration results.
For example, you might roll two 3’s or three 5’s, in
which case you should refer to the chart. Choose the
most numerous multiples if you score more than one
set of multiples. So, if you rolled a double 3 and a
triple 5, only look up the triple 5 on the Exploration
chart. In the case of two doubles or triples look up the
highest result. For example, if you rolled double 1
and double 3, look up the double 3 result.
Income
Any money or loot you find in these locations is
added straight to the warband’s treasury. Any shards
of wyrdstone you find can be sold as normal.
exploration procedure
1. Roll 1D6 for each of your Heroes who survived
the battle and one extra dice if you won, plus any
extra dice allowed by skills or equipment. Note,
however, that you must pick a maximum of six
dice out of all the dice you roll, even if you are
allowed to roll seven dice or more.
2. Some things, such as skills and equipment, (like
the Mordheim Map) may allow you to re-roll dice.
If your warband includes an Elf Ranger, you may
modify one dice by +1 or -1.
3. If you rolled any doubles, triples, etc, you have
found an unusual location in Mordheim. Consult
the Exploration chart on the next page to see
what you find. Refer to the appropriate entry on
the following pages and follow the instructions
given there.
4. Add the results together and consult the chart on
the next page to see how many shards of
wyrdstone you have found. Mark down the
amount of wyrdstone on your warband’s roster
sheet.
NUMBER OF WYRDSTONE SHARDS FOUND
Dice Result Shards Found
1-5 1
6-11 2
12-17 3
18-24 4
25-30 5
31-35 6
36+ 7
Example: The Sellswords, a Reiklander warband, have just
won a battle. Three of their Heroes survived and the warband
discovered the Entrance to the Catacombs in an earlier battle.
This means that the warband may roll four dice and re-roll
one of them. The player rolls 5, 5, 1 and 3. He then picks one of
the dice (the 1) and re-rolls it. He scores a 4. His warband also
includes an Elf Ranger, so he can modify one of the dice rolls
by +1/-1. The player decides to turn the 4 into a 5, giving him
a grand total of 5, 5, 5 and 3. This means that the warband has
found four shards of wyrdstone (5+5+5+3=18 which
according to the table above gives the warband four shards)
and the three 5’s produce a ‘Market Hall’ result on the
Exploration chart.

--- Page 18 ---
94 9494
Income
94
Exploration chart
DOUBLES
1 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Well
2 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shop
3 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Corpse
4 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Straggler
5 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Overturned Cart
6 6. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ruined Hovels
TRIPLES
1 1 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tavern
2 2 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Smithy
3 3 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Prisoners
4 4 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fletcher
5 5 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Market Hall
6 6 6. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Returning a Favour
FOUR OF KIND
1 1 1 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gunsmith
2 2 2 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shrine
3 3 3 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Townhouse
4 4 4 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Armourer
5 5 5 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Graveyard
6 6 6 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Catacombs
FIVE OF KIND
1 1 1 1 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Moneylender’s House
2 2 2 2 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alchemist’s Laboratory
3 3 3 3 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jewelsmith
4 4 4 4 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Merchant’s House
5 5 5 5 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shattered Building
6 6 6 6 6 . . . . . . . . . . Entrance to the Catacombs
SIX OF KIND
1 1 1 1 1 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Pit
2 2 2 2 2 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hidden Treasure
3 3 3 3 3 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dwarf Smithy
4 4 4 4 4 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . Slaughtered Warband
5 5 5 5 5 5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fighting Arena
6 6 6 6 6 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Noble’s Villa
T
he Necromancer dropped the crushed
wyrdstone into the burning brazier causing
the roaring flames to leap up and light the room
in greens and blues. His spies had told him that
a Witch Hunter had come to Mordheim to run
him down and end his unholy work. 
Thinking of it made the evil Necromancer laugh
aloud. The stupid fool did not know what
dangers he was dealing with. Enemies might be
killed, riches might be won, but nobody could
defeat this city. Mordheim no longer belonged
to the normal mortal world. The stones
themselves were steeped in the very stuff of
chaos.
“Perhaps he will kill me. He will be young,
brash, naive. He is full of pride and noble self-
sacrifice. He believes he can defeat this place!”
He told his Zombies with a bitter laugh, as they
waited dumbly around him, their unseeing eyes
clouded over, the flesh hanging limply off their
rotting bones.
“It doesn’t matter any more. For I have the
power now, I have the means to continue the
great quest for all eternity. Isn’t that right,
Hensel?” he asked the nearest of the Zombies,
which leant on the haft of a battered, old
halberd. The creature slowly turned its head
towards him, its broken jaw lolling open to
issue an unintelligible moan.
“He thinks he knows what the truth is, doesn’t
he? Well, he will learn.” mused Marius Dire.
“He will learn…”


--- Page 19 ---
9595 95
Income
95
(1 1) Well
The public wells, of which there were several in
Mordheim, were covered by rooves raised up
on pillars and adorned with carvings and
fountains. The city was proud of its water
system. Unfortunately, like all the other wells,
this one is in a parlous state and undoubtedly
polluted with wyrdstone.
Choose one of your Heroes and roll a D6. If the
result is equal to or lower than his Toughness, he
finds one shard of wyrdstone at the bottom of the
well. If he fails, the Hero swallows tainted water
and must miss the next game through sickness.
(2 2) Shop
The Merchants Guild shop has been thoroughly
ransacked. Even so, there are still items
scattered around the single, long room,
mingled in with the rubble. Some are useful,
such as cast iron pots and pans and rolls of
fine cloth. All manner of smaller items are
lying about – the sort of frippery which no
longer has a use in a devastated city with few
inhabitants.
After a thorough search you find loot worth D6 gc.
If you roll a 1 you will also find a Lucky Charm (see
the Equipment section, page 53).
(3 3) Corpse
You find a still-warm corpse. A chipped dagger
sticks out of his back. Surprisingly, his
possessions have not been looted.
To see what you find when you search the corpse,
roll a D6:
D6 Result
1-2 D6 gc
3 Dagger
4 Axe
5 Sword
6 Suit of light armour
(4 4) Straggler
Your warband encounters one of the survivors
of Mordheim, who has lost his sanity along
with all his worldly possessions.
Skaven warbands can sell the straggler to agents of
Clan Eshin (who will use the man for food or
slavery) and gain 2D6 gc.
Possessed warbands can sacrifice the unfortunate
individual for the glory of the Chaos gods. The
leader of the warband will gain +1 Experience.
Undead warbands can kill the man and gain a
Zombie for no cost.
Any other warband can interrogate the man and
gain insight into the city. Next time you roll on the
Exploration chart, roll one dice more than is
usually allowed, and discard any one dice. (For
example, if you have three Heroes, roll four dice
and pick any three).
(5 5) Overturned Cart
Stuck in a ruined gateway is an overturned
wagon – the covered type that nobles travel in
from the city to their estates in the country.
Since anyone important fled a long time ago,
what is it doing here? The horses have broken
their traces, or did someone cut them free?
Roll a D6 to see what you find:
D6 Result
1-2 Mordheim Map (see Equipment)
3-4 A purse with 2D6 gc
5-6 Jewelled sword and dagger. These can be
kept or sold at twice the value of a normal
sword and dagger, but note that the
normal selling price is half the actual cost
(see the Trading section for rules on
selling items), so the jewelled sword will
sell for 10gc, for instance.
(6 6) Ruined Hovels
The street consists of ruined hovels, which are
leaning over at alarming angles. Not much
worth looting here.
You find loot worth D6 gc amidst the ruins.
Doubles


--- Page 20 ---
96 9696
Income
96
(1 1 1) Tavern
The ruin of a tavern is recognisable by its sign
still hanging on the wall. The upper part of the
building is ruined, but the cellars are cut into
rock and are still full of barrels. There are
broken flagons and tankards everywhere.
You could easily sell the barrels for a good price.
Unfortunately your men are also interested in the
contents! The warband’s leader must take a
Leadership test. If he passes, the warband gains
4D6 gc worth of wines and ales which can be sold
immediately.
If he fails, the men drink most of the alcohol
despite their leader’s threats and curses. You have
D6 gc worth of alcohol left when the warband
reaches their encampment.
Undead, Witch Hunter and Sisters of Sigmar
warbands automatically pass this test, as they are
not tempted by such worldly things as alcohol.
(2 2 2) Smithy
The furnace and toppled anvil make it obvious
what work was done here. Most of the iron and
the tools have been looted long ago. Coal and
slag litter the floor but there may still be
weapons to be found among the debris.
Roll a D6 to determine what you find inside:
D6 Result
1 Sword
2 Double-handed weapon
3 Flail
4 D3 Halberds
5 Lance
6 2D6 gc worth of metal
(add the value to your treasury).
(3 3 3) Prisoners
A muffled sound comes from one of the
buildings. Inside you find a group of finely
dressed people who have been locked in a
cellar. Perhaps they are prisoners taken by
cultists, ready to be sacrificed during
Geheimnisnacht.
Possessed warbands can sacrifice the victims
(undoubtedly finishing the job of the captors).
They gain D3 Experience which is distributed
amongst the Heroes of the warband.
Undead warbands can callously kill the prisoners
and gain D3 Zombies at no cost.
Skaven can sell the prisoners into slavery for 3D6
gc.
Other warbands can escort the prisoners out of the
city. For their trouble, they are rewarded with 2D6
gc. In addition, one of the prisoners decides he
wishes to join the warband. If you can afford to
equip the new recruit with weapons and armour,
you may add a new Henchman to any of your
human Henchman groups (with the same stats as
the rest of the group, even if they have already
accumulated experience).
(4 4 4) Fletcher
This hovel was once the workshop of a fletcher
– a maker of bows and arrows. There are
bundles of yew staves and willow rods
everywhere.
Roll a D6 to see what you find:
D6 Result
1-2 D3 Short bows
3 D3 Bows
4 D3 Long bows
5 Quiver of hunting arrows
6 D3 Crossbows
(5 5 5) Market Hall
The market hall was raised up on
pillars, with the timbered corn
exchange above the open market
place. The upper storey has been
badly damaged, but the covered market still
offers a good deal of shelter. The remains of the
last market day are still lying around on the
cobbles. Most of this is broken pottery and iron
pots.
You find several items worth 2D6 gc in total.
(6 6 6) Returning a Favour
As you are returning to your encampment, you
meet one of your old acquaintances. He has
come to repay an old favour or debt.
You gain the services of any one Hired Sword
(choose from those available to your warband) for
the duration of the next battle, free of charge. After
the battle he will depart, or you may continue to
pay for his upkeep as normal. See the Hired
Swords section on page 105.
Triples


--- Page 21 ---
9797 97
(1 1 1 1) Gunsmith
You find the workshop of a Dwarf gunsmith. Its
doors have been broken down and the rooms
raided, but some of the iron strongboxes have
survived intact.
Roll a D6 to see what you find:
D6 Result
1 Blunderbuss
2 Brace of pistols
3 Brace of duelling pistols
4 D3 Handguns
5 D3 Flasks of superior blackpowder
6 Hochland long rifle
(2 2 2 2) Shrine
Your warband stumbles across a ruined shrine,
which is so badly damaged that it is difficult to
tell which god was once worshipped within its
walls. A few images remain on the painted
plaster walls but they have been defaced by
heretics. Fragments of smashed statues lie
among the ruins. Some items appear to be
covered in gold leaf, most of which has been
torn off. 
Your warband may strip the shrine and gain 3D6 gc
worth of loot.
Sisters of Sigmar or Witch Hunter warbands may
save some of the shrine’s holy relics. They will gain
3D6 gc from their patrons, and a blessing from the
gods. One of their weapons (chosen by the player)
will now be blessed and will always wound any
Undead or Possessed model on a to wound roll of
2+. 
(3 3 3 3) Townhouse
This three-storey house was once part of a
tenement block overlooking a narrow
alleyway. The street is now in ruins, but this
house remains largely intact. Exploring it you
find that the garret leans over so far that you
can step out of the window into the attic of the
house opposite.
Your warband finds 3D6 gc worth of loot.
(4 4 4 4) Armourer
A breastplate hanging from a pole drew your
attention to this place, obviously too high up to
be easily looted. The workshop is ruined and
the forge has been smashed. Rooting about in
the soot, you find various half-finished items of
armour.
Roll a D6 to see what you find:
D6 Result
1-2 D3 Shields or bucklers (choose which)
3 D3 Helmets
4 D3 Suits of light armour
5 D3 Suits of heavy armour
6 Suit of Ithilmar armour
(5 5 5 5) Graveyard
You find an old graveyard, crammed with
sepulchres that are overgrown with ivy. The
monuments to the dead are grotesque and
decorated with sculpted gargoyles. The
ironwork has been ripped from some of the
tombs, and stones have toppled off. It looks as
if some of the crypts have already been broken
into by tomb robbers.
Any warband apart from Witch Hunters and Sisters
of Sigmar may loot the crypts and graves and gains
D6x10 gc worth of loot.
If you loot the graveyard, the next time you play
against Sisters of Sigmar or Witch Hunters, the
entire enemy warband will hate all the models in
your warband. Make a note of this on your
warband roster sheet.
Witch Hunters and Sisters of Sigmar may seal the
graves. They will be rewarded for their piety by D6
Experience points distributed amongst the Heroes
of the warband.
(6 6 6 6) Catacombs
You find an entrance to the catacombs and
tunnels below Mordheim.
You can use the new tunnels you found in the next
battle you play. Position up to three fighters (not
Rat Ogres or the Possessed) anywhere on the
battlefield at ground level. They are set up at the
end of the player’s first turn and cannot be placed
within 8" of any enemy models. 
This represents the warriors making their way
through the tunnels, infiltrating enemy lines and
emerging suddenly from below ground.
Income
97
Four of a kind

--- Page 22 ---
98 9898
(4 4 4 4 4) Merchant’s House
The merchant’s house stands by the waterfront.
It has a vaulted stone undercroft which is still
stacked with barrels and bales of cloth. The
foodstuffs have been looted or eaten long ago
and huge rats infest the rotting bales. Up the
stairs are the dwelling quarters, solidly built of
timber, although badly damaged you think you
can still get up to them but you’ll need to tread
with care!
Inside you find several valuable objects which can
be sold for 2D6x5 gc. If you roll a double, instead
of finding money you find the symbol of the Order
of Freetraders. A Hero in possession of this gains
the Haggle skill.
(5 5 5 5 5) Shattered Building
The comet destroyed this building almost
completely, making it unsafe for all but the
most daring to explore. But places such as this
are the best for searching for wyrdstone shards.
You find D3 shards of wyrdstone amongst the
ruins. In addition take a Leadership test against the
warband leader’s Leadership value. If passed a
wardog that was guarding the building joins the
warband. 
(6 6 6 6 6) Entrance to the Catacombs
You find a well-hidden entrance to the dark
catacombs which extend for miles beneath the
city of Mordheim. Although the entrance looks
foreboding the tunnels will take hours off your
searches of the city.
You can use these tunnels to explore Mordheim
more efficiently. From now on, you may re-roll one
dice when you roll on the Exploration chart. Make
a note of this in your warband’s roster sheet.
Second and subsequent catacomb entrances you
find do not grant you any additional re-rolls,
although you may find further re-rolls from other
sources.
Income
98
(1 1 1 1 1) Moneylender’s House
A grand mansion, that is strongly built from
stone, has survived the cataclysm remarkably
well. A carved coat of arms adorns the lintel
above the doorway although it has been
defaced by raiders and the symbols are now
unrecognisable. The door itself, has been
smashed open with axes and hangs open on its
hinges.
Inside, hidden amongst the debris, you find D6x10
gc to add to your treasury.
(2 2 2 2 2) Alchemist’s Laboratory
A narrow stairway leads down into a crypt-like
dwelling which was once an alchemist’s
workshop. The sign still hangs from one hinge
above the entrance. It looks as if this was a very
old building which has remained in use for
centuries although it did not survive the
comet’s destruction too well. The stone floor
has strange symbols on it and there are charts
and astrological symbols painted onto the
walls.
In the ruins you find loot worth 3D6 gc and a
battered old notebook. One of your Heroes may
study the Alchemist’s notebook, and the extra
wisdom he gains will enable him to choose from
Academic skills whenever he gains a new skill in
addition to those skills normally available to him.
(3 3 3 3 3) Jewelsmith
The houses in the jewellers’ quarter have all
been well and truly looted long ago. Even the
rubble has been picked over many times for
fragments of gold and gems. But still, some
small but valuable items may have been
overlooked.
Roll a D6 to see what you find:
D6 Result
1-2 Quartz stones worth D6x5 gc 
3-4 Amethyst worth 20 gc
5 Necklace worth 50 gc
6 A ruby worth D6x15 gc
If your warband does not sell the gems, one of
your Heroes may keep them and displays them
proudly. He will gain +1 to the rolls for locating
rare items as merchants flock to such an obviously
wealthy warrior.
Five of a kind

--- Page 23 ---
9999 99
(1 1 1 1 1 1) The Pit
You have come within sight of the Pit, the huge
crater created by the comet. A black cloud still
rises from it but you can see glowing wyrdstone
everywhere. This is the domain of the Shadow
Lord, the lord of the Possessed, and no-one is
welcome here – even his own followers! 
If you wish, you can send one of your Heroes to
search for any wyrdstone hidden here. Roll a D6.
On a roll of 1 the Hero is devoured by the
guardians of the Pit and never seen again. On a roll
of 2 or more he returns with D6+1 shards of
wyrdstone.
(2 2 2 2 2 2) Hidden Treasure
In the depths of Mordheim, you come across a
hidden chest, bearing the coat-of-arms of one of
the noble families of the town.
When you open the chest you find the following
items. Roll for every item on the list separately
(apart from the gold crowns) to see whether you
have found it. For example, on a roll of a 4+ you
find the wyrdstone.
Items D6 Result Needed
D3 Pieces of wyrdstone 4+
5D6x5 gc Auto
Holy relic 5+
Suit of heavy armour 5+
D3 Gems worth 10 gc each 4+
Elven cloak 5+
Holy tome 5+
Magical artefact 5+
(3 3 3 3 3 3) Dwarf Smithy
You find a solidly built stone workshop. A runic
inscription indicates that this may have been a
Dwarf smithy.
Roll a D6 to see what you find:
D6 Result
1 D3 Double-handed axes 
2 D3 Suits of heavy armour 
3 Gromril axe 
4 Gromril hammer 
5 Double-handed gromril axe
6 Gromril armour 
(4 4 4 4 4 4) Slaughtered Warband 
You find the remains of an entire warband.
Broken bodies lay scattered among the ruins,
torn apart by some monstrous creature. You see
a huge shape, which looks like an immense
Possessed creature, shambling away. 
After giving the dead their final rites (Sisters of
Sigmar or Witch Hunters), eating them (Skaven or
Undead) or looting them (anyone else!) you find
the following items. Roll for every item separately
(apart from the gold coins and daggers) to see if
you find it. For example, on a roll of 4+ you will
find the suits of light armour.
Item D6 Result Needed
3D6x5 gc Auto
D3 Suits of light armour 4+
Suit of heavy armour 5+
D6 Daggers Auto
Mordheim Map (see p55) 4+
D3 Halberds 5+
D3 Swords 3+
D3 Shields 2+
D3 Bows 4+
D3 Helmets 2+
(5 5 5 5 5 5) Fighting Arena
During better times, Mordheim was famous for
its duellists and pit fighters. You have found
one of the areas used to train these warriors.
The place is filled with training equipment and
practice weapons.
You find a training manual, which you can either
sell for 100 gc or let one of your Heroes read. The
extra knowledge your Hero gleans from reading
the manual entitles him to choose from Combat
skills whenever he gains a new skill, and his WS
may now be increased by an extra point above his
normal racial maximum (for example, a Human
who has the book would now have a maximum
Weapon Skill of 7).
(6 6 6 6 6 6) Noble’s Villa
You find a fine house which is partially ruined.
It has been thoroughly ransacked and all the
furniture has been stripped of its fine fabrics.
Shards of broken pottery of the finest quality
are scattered over the floor.
Roll a D6. If you roll 1-2, you find D6x10 gc worth
of items and money to add to your treasury. On a
roll of 3-4, you find D6 vials of Crimson Shade. On
a roll of 5-6 you find a hidden magical artefact
carefully concealed in a hidden cellar or behind a
secret door. Roll on the Magical Artefacts table. 
Income
99
Six of a kind

--- Page 24 ---
100 100100
Income
magical artefacts table
Roll a D6 and use this table to determine which item you find when a result in the Exploration
chart indicates that you have found a magical artefact. In a campaign none of these items can
appear more than once, so if you find a magic item which is already in someone else’s possession
roll again – even if the warrior carrying it has been killed.
1 The Boots and Rope of Pieter
Pieter, the master thief of the Guild of Shadows, was the
most famous of all the cat burglars of Mordheim. He
earned the nickname ‘Spider’ for his daring robberies.
The secret of his success was a pair of enchanted boots
and a magical rope which he had acquired from far-off
Araby.
A model wearing these boots may move normally
(including running, charging, etc) on any kind of terrain,
including vertical surfaces. When moving the model,
simply adds the distances moved horizontally to that
moved vertically, with no Initiative test needed (except to
jump across gaps). 
2 The Count of Ventimiglia’s Misericordia
This dagger was used by the notorious Tilean
gentleman-pirate known as the ‘Black Corsair’. It is
claimed that he found it in ancient Elven ruins and
legend also has it that the dagger’s blade cannot be
damaged in any way. 
The dagger is treated as a sword. Opponents wounded
by it are stunned on a result of 1-3 (Undead are knocked
down as normal) and put out of action on a 4-6. 
3 Att’la’s Plate Mail
This armour was given as a present by the Dwarf Lord
Kurgan to the warlord Att’la in the time of Sigmar
Heldenhammer. 
Att’la’s Plate Mail is a suit of gromril armour with the
following three runes inscribed on it: 
Rune of Spell Eating: The Hero wearing this armour
is immune to all spells.
Rune of Passage: The Hero can move through solid
objects, like walls (this does not mean that he can see
through them).
Rune of Fortitude : The Hero has an extra wound.
Note that this may take his total Wounds above his
race’s maximum.
4 Bow of Seeking
This bow was a gift to Count Steinhardt from the Elf
lords of the Forest of Shadows.
Any arrow shot using this magic bow will pursue the
target and hit it even if the target is behind cover. Treat
this as an Elven bow that always hits on a 2+, regardless
of any to hit modifier. Such is its deadly precision that all
the arrows shot with this weapon count as Hunting
Arrows (+1 on all Injury rolls). 
Pick any enemy model in range, not just the closest, but
the shooter must be able to see the target (even the tip of
a target’s weapon is enough – as long as the shooter is
aware of the presence and position of the target, he can
shoot). In addition, if any Dwarf is an eligible target, the
arrows will always deviate from their intended target and
try to hit the Dwarf instead. For obvious reasons this bow
cannot be used to shoot at Elves. 
5 Executioner’s Hood
Recovered from a shipwrecked Dark Elf vessel, this hood
carries evil glowing runes which fill the wearer with
unreasoning rage.
A warrior wearing this becomes subject to and always will
be frenzied even if he is knocked down or stunned. He
also adds +1 to his Strength in close combat, such is the
power of his fury. The wearer never leaves combat under
any circumstances, and will always attack opponents in
base contact until they are taken out of action.
If there are any stunned or knocked down models within
the wearer’s charge range at the beginning of his turn, he
will charge and attack the closest one, even if they are
members of his own warband! Fight the hand-to-hand
combat until one of the warriors is taken out of action.
6 All-seeing Eye of Numas
This jewel was recovered from the ruins of Numas far in
the south. It gives its wielder horrific nightmares that
predict his future.
The bearer of the All-seeing Eye can see all models on the
table top, even if they are hidden or out of sight. He can
guide his fellow warband members through the ruins
(this allows you to roll two dice for the bearer after battle
when rolling on the Exploration chart). The bearer also
has an additional 6+ save (which is not modified by
Strength or weapon modifiers) against all shooting
attacks and strikes in close combat, as he can sense the
attacks before they are made.
All animals (such as wardogs, horses, etc) will be
affected by frenzy when fighting against the bearer of
the All-seeing Eye.
100

--- Page 25 ---
101101 101101 101
selling wyrdstone
Wyrdstone is tremendously valuable and is in
constant demand by Imperial nobles. This means that
finding buyers for your warband’s wyrdstone is not
difficult. You do not have to sell all your wyrdstone
immediately after the battle – you may want to hoard
it and sell it later, as selling wyrdstone in smaller
quantities will increase demand and raise the price.
Unfortunately, the demands of running a warband
often mean that you will have to sell most of your
wyrdstone as soon as you find it.
The warband must spend a large portion of its income
on basic necessities such as food, drink, repair of
weapons, and new arrows and ammunition, as well as
celebrating! A warband leader is also expected to
share any profits made by selling wyrdstone between
his men which means that the more money the
warband makes from such sales, the bigger the share
for the men.
The more models there are in the warband, the more
it costs to maintain and the higher the level of any
profits made that must be shared between the men.
The number indicated on the following chart is the
profit in gold crowns earned after deducting the
warband’s maintenance costs. The profit is added to
warband’s treasury.
Number of Warriors in Warband 
1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 13-15 16+
1 45 40 35 30 30 25
2 60 55 50 45 40 35
3 75 70 65 60 55 50
4 90 80 70 65 60 55
5 110 100 90 80 70 65
6 120 110 100 90 80 70
7 145 130 120 110 100 90
8+ 155 140 130 120 110 100
Income
sisters of sigmar and income
Worldly possessions mean little to the Sisters, but
their holy mission to purify
Mordheim of the influence of
Chaos requires supplies and
weaponry, and these are much
in demand. Thus the warbands of
the Sisterhood compete with
each other to gain the best
weapons and equipment from
the temple’s armoury.
To measure their success, the more
wyrdstone the Sisters bring to be kept under lock and
key in the Vault of Vindication in the temple at
Sigmar’s Rock, the more aid they will receive from the
temple.
Thus all gold crowns in the possession of a Sisters of
Sigmar warband represent the resources that the High
Matriarch will put at their disposal. It does not
represent money in a literal sense, so you may like to
think of it as faith, piety, dedication, etc.
skaven and undead
Neither of these warbands puts much value on gold,
but they send all the wyrdstone they find to their
superiors and receive aid and resources in return.
Skaven use their own currency for trading, while the
Undead are somewhat beyond petty concepts of
wealth. For Skaven, the gold crowns in the warband’s
treasury represent the warp tokens which the Skaven
use for currency, while for the Undead it represents
the favour they enjoy in the eyes of their master, Vlad
von Carstein of Sylvania.
spending income
You can spend any accumulated money on weapons,
armour, hiring new warriors, buying new
equipment or simply save the money for a
bigger purchase. See the Trading section
for details.
No. of Shards Sold
101

--- Page 26 ---
102 102102 102102
Every
settlement
around the city of
Mordheim has at
least one trading
post, shop or
merchant’s
guildhouse
where the
local traders
sell their wares
and buy wyrdstone 
and other items that have been scavenged from the
ruins. In a large village such a place might cover a
substantial area with many traders and merchants
offering their goods and services. Small settlements
are served by travelling traders.
All warbands are able to get new equipment one way
or another. The most unscrupulous merchants
actively trade with the Possessed Cultists, and
creatures such as the Skaven have their own network
of contacts, while Vampires can send the Dregs that
serve them into the less salubrious settlements
around Mordheim, such as Cutthroats’ Haven.
spending cash
After every game, a warband can collect income from
exploration, etc, and sell any wyrdstone and treasures
they have acquired. Cash can be spent on recruiting
new warriors, or on new equipment for the warband.
The price of wyrdstone varies according to current
demand. See the Income section for details.
new recruits
New warriors are recruited in the same way as the
original warband with the notable exception of
equipment. After the start of a campaign, a new
hireling can only buy Common items from his
warband’s equipment chart freely. He may only be
given Rare items from his warband’s equipment chart
if the warband can obtain them via the normal trading
rules. 
Warbands may recruit whatever type of warriors the
player wishes, but the usual restrictions apply
regarding the number of Heroes, Henchmen, wizards,
etc. For example, no warband may recruit a second
leader, and no Mercenary warband can have more
than two Champions.
recruiting hired swords
Players may hire mercenary warriors known as ‘Hired
Swords’ for the warband if they wish. See the Hired
Swords section starting on page 147.
new recruits and 
existing henchmen groups
You may add new recruits to existing Henchman
groups. If the group is relatively inexperienced, you
will have no difficulty in finding raw recruits to add to
their numbers. But more experienced gnarled
veterans are not so keen on letting novice warriors
join them – and quite rightly so! Between each battle,
roll 2D6: this represents the experience of the
warriors currently available for hire. You can hire as
many warriors as you wish, as long as their combined
Experience does not exceed your dice roll. For
example, if you rolled 7, you could add a single
warrior to a Henchman group with 7 Experience
points, or two warriors to a Henchman group with 3
Experience points, or any combination thereof.
Disregard any excess Experience points.
As with other new Henchmen, you must pay for all
their weapons and armour, and in addition you must
add 2 gold crowns to their cost for each extra
Experience point they add to the warband’s total.
New Henchmen must be armed and equipped in the
same way as existing members of the group.
weapons
If a player wants to buy new weapons or other
equipment for existing warriors, refer to the Price
chart that follows. The chart lists all the equipment
available in Mordheim, not just the common weapons
included in the Recruitment charts. Rare items and
weapons are not always available and vary in price.
Remember that your warriors lack the skill to use any
weapons other than the ones listed in the
Recruitment charts. You may still want to buy rare
items offered to you, as your warriors may be able to
use them as they gain in experience.
Players should preferably complete any recruiting and
trading after the battle is over, making the appropriate
dice rolls whilst both players are present.
However, some players may prefer to wait until the
heat of battle has cooled and they are able to consider
Trading


--- Page 27 ---
103103 103103
Trading
purchases more carefully. Determine which rare items
are offered for sale while both players are together.
The players can work out what they will buy later.
trading
Trade items are divided into two sections: common
and rare items. Common items can be bought quite
readily in any of the numerous trading posts and
settlements around Mordheim. Players may purchase
as many of these items as they want. The price of
common items is fixed, so players always pay the
same rate for them.
Rare items are hard or even impossible to come by.
Only occasionally do such items
turn up for sale and the price asked
is often way above the true value.
These items are often offered only to
the most famous warbands, or those
with the most money.
availability
The Price chart has a column
marked ‘Availability’. Common items
are always available, and can be
bought in any quantity. Items
marked ‘rare’ are more difficult to
find. A rare item’s availability is
indicated by a number, for example
‘Rare 9’.
Whenever a Hero wants to buy a rare
item, roll 2D6 and compare the
result to the number stated. If the
roll is equal or greater, the item is
available. For example, you need to
roll 9 or more to acquire an item
marked ‘Rare 9’. You can only buy
one rare item for each successful
roll. You may also only make one
roll for each Hero looking for rare
items. For example, if your warband
has four Heroes, you may make four
rolls to locate rare items. Warriors
taken out of action during the last
battle may not look for rare items.
selling
A player may trade in weapons and
equipment at the same time he buys
new ones. After all, as warbands
become more powerful they often
abandon their earlier armament in
favour of something better.
However, the second-hand value of
equipment is not high due to the
considerable wear and tear inflicted
on it by your warriors.
Warriors can automatically sell equipment for half its
listed price. In the case of rare equipment and
weapons which have a variable price, the warband
receives half of the basic cost only (merchants are far
better at haggling than your warriors).
Alternatively, weapons, armour and equipment may
be hoarded for future use (make a note on the
warband roster) or swapped around the warband
from one fighter to another (though not between
warbands). As a weapon’s value is low compared to
the cost of equipping any new recruits you may get, a
warband can usually find a use for its cast-off
armaments.
103


--- Page 28 ---
104 104104 104104 104
Trading
104
Price chart
The following chart indicates the cost of items available for sale at trading posts. The cost
of rare items is included, but such items cannot be bought unless they are available, as
already described. In some cases the price is variable, and includes a basic cost plus a
variable extra amount, for example 20+3D6 gold crowns. For these items the extra
variable cost reflects the rarity of the item – the premium which must be paid to buy it.
HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT WEAPONS
Item Cost Availability
Axe 5 gc Common
Club, Mace or Hammer 3 gc Common
Dagger 1st free/2 gc Common
Double-Handed Weapon 15 gc Common
Flail 15 gc Common
Gromril Weapon 4 x Price Rare 11
Halberd 10 gc Common
Ithilmar Weapon 3 x Price Rare 9
Lance 40 gc Rare 8
Morning Star 15 gc Common
Spear 10 gc Common
Sword 10 gc Common
MISSILE WEAPONS
Item Cost Availability
Bow 10 gc Common
Blunderbuss 30 gc Rare 9
Crossbow 25 gc Common
Crossbow Pistol 35 gc Rare 9
Duelling Pistol/brace 30 gc/60 gc Rare 10
Elf Bow 35 +3D6 gc Rare 12
Handgun 35 gc Rare 8
Hunting Rifle 200 gc Rare 11
Long Bow 15 gc Common
Pistol/brace 15 gc/30 gc Rare 8
Repeater Crossbow 40 gc Rare 8
Sling 2 gc Common
Short Bow 5 gc Common
Throwing Knives/Stars 15 gc Rare 5
ARMOUR
Item Cost Availability
Barding 80 gc Rare 8
Buckler 5 gc Common
Gromril Armour 150 gc Rare 11
Heavy Armour 50 gc Common
Helmet 10 gc Common
Ithilmar Armour 90 gc Rare 11
Light Armour 20 gc Common
Shield 5 gc Common
MISCELLANEOUS
Item Cost Availability
Black Lotus 10+D6 gc Rare 9
(Not available to Witch Hunters, Warrior-Priests or
Sisters of Sigmar. Rare 7 for Skaven)
Blessed Water 10+3D6 gc Rare 6
(Common for Warrior-Priests and Sisters of Sigmar;
May not be bought by Undead)
Bugman’s Ale 50+3D6 gc Rare 9
Cathayan Silk Clothes 50+2D6 gc Rare 9
Crimson Shade 35+D6 gc Rare 8
Dark Venom 30+2D6 gc Rare 8
(Not available to Witch Hunters, Warrior-Priests, or
Sisters of Sigmar)
Elven Cloak 100+D6x10 gc Rare 12
Garlic 1 gc Common
(May not be bought by Undead)
Halfling Cookbook 30+3D6 gc Rare 7
Healing Herbs 20+2D6 gc Rare 8
Holy (Unholy) Relic 15+3D6 gc Rare 8
(Rare 6 for Warrior-Priests and Sisters of Sigmar)
Holy Tome 100+D6x10 gc Rare 8
(Only available to Warrior-Priests and Sisters of
Sigmar)
Horse 40 gc Rare 8
(Only available to Humans)
Hunting Arrows 25+D6 gc Rare 8
Lantern 10 gc Common
Lucky Charm 10 gc Rare 6
Mad Cap Mushrooms 30+3D6 gc Rare 9
Mandrake Root 25+D6 gc Rare 8
Mordheim Map 20+4D6 gc Rare 9
Net 5 gc Common
Rope & Hook 5gc Common
Superior Blackpowder 30 gc Rare 11 
Tears of Shallaya 10+2D6 gc Rare 7
(Not available to Possessed or Undead)
Tome of Magic 200+D6x25 gc Rare 12
(Not available to Witch Hunters or Sisters of
Sigmar)
Warhorse 80 gc Rare 11
(Only available to Humans)
Wardog 25+2D6 gc Rare 10
(Not available to Skaven)

--- Page 29 ---
Hired swords
105
recruiting hired swords
This section introduces Hired Swords – professional
mercenaries – to Mordheim campaign games. Taverns
in the settlements and shanty towns around
Mordheim are good recruitment centres for warriors
who do not belong to any particular warband or
retinue, but instead hire out their services to the
highest bidder.
A player can recruit Hired Swords when he creates his
warband, or during the campaign phase after a game.
Hired Swords do not count towards the maximum
number of warriors or Heroes a warband may have on
its roster and don’t affect your income from selling
wyrdstone. However, Hired Swords do count as part
of the warband for purposes of Rout tests, etc whilst
in battle. A player cannot buy extra weapons or
equipment for a Hired Sword, and he
cannot sell the Hired Sword’s weapons
or equipment. To reflect their rarity,
you can only have one of each type
of Hired Sword in your warband.
You may not use the Leadership of
any of the Hired Swords for Rout
tests.
hire fee
When a warband recruits a Hired
Sword, you must must pay his hire
fee. Subsequently, after each battle
he fights, including the first, you
must pay his upkeep fee if you want
him to remain with the warband. If
the Hired Sword is killed, or you no
longer require his services, you
don’t have to pay any upkeep!
These costs are indicated in the
entries for each Hired Sword. 
The money paid to Hired Swords
comes from the warband’s treasury
in the same way as buying new
weapons or recruiting new
warriors. If you don’t have enough
gold to pay for the Hired Sword, or
want to spend it on other things, he
leaves the warband. Any experience
he has gained will be lost, even if
you hire a new Henchman of the
same type.
injuries
If a Hired Sword goes out of action during the game,
roll for his injuries as you would roll for a Henchman
after a battle (i.e, 1-2 = Lost; 3-6 = Survives).
hired swords and experience
Hired Swords gain experience in exactly the same way
as Henchmen. Refer to the scenarios to find out how
much experience Hired Swords gain after each game.
Write the name and profile of a Hired Sword on your
roster sheet in one of the Henchman group slots.
Once the Hired Sword gains enough experience for
an advance, roll on the Heroes Advancement table (as
opposed to Henchmen) to determine which advance 
he gains. Skills available to the Hired Swords are
listed under their entries.
Hired Swords
105

--- Page 30 ---
Pit fighter
30 gold crowns to hire +15 gold crowns upkeep
Pit Fighters are dangerous men who make their
living in the illegal fighting pits of the Empire. Many
of them are slaves and prisoners but some are free
men who earn their living from savage pit fights in
settlements like Cutthroat’s Haven or Black Pit. Even
though pit fights are banned in many provinces, they
are very popular and a great deal of money is
wagered on the outcome. Thus many authorities
turn a blind eye to these bloodsports.
When not in the pits, Pit Fighters offer their services
to the highest bidders, and they readily find
employment in warbands intent on exploring the
ruins of Mordheim. Pit Fighters are powerful and
dangerous fighters, and their unique weaponry gives
them an advantage against almost any opponent.
May be Hired: Any warband apart from Undead and
Skaven may hire a Pit Fighter.
Rating: A Pit Fighter increases the warband’s rating
by +22 points, plus 1 point for each Experience point
he has.
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
P i t  F i g h t e r 443441427
Equipment: Morning star, spiked gauntlet and
helmet. The spiked gauntlet counts as an additional
hand weapon and a buckler. And no, your Heroes
cannot learn to use it!
Skills: A Pit Fighter may choose from Combat, 
Speed and Strength skills when he gains a new skill.
Ogre bodyguard
80 gold crowns to hire +30 gold crowns upkeep
Ogres are large, brutish creatures, standing some ten
feet tall, and all of it bone and muscle. For this
reason they are much in demand as bodyguards and
mercenaries, despite their lack of brains. A warband
backed up by an Ogre makes a fearsome enemy,
since Ogres are extremely dangerous fighters and a
terrifying sight to behold when enraged. They happily
accept any employer, as they are notoriously
unbothered about who they fight for.
May be Hired: Any warband except Skaven may hire
an Ogre Bodyguard.
Rating: An Ogre Bodyguard increases the warband’s
rating by +25 points, plus 1 point for each
Experience point he has.
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Ogre 6 32443327
Weapons/Armour: Either two swords, axes or clubs
(or any mix of them), or a double-handed weapon
(you may choose which). Ogres wear light armour.
SPECIAL RULES
Fear: Ogres are large, threatening creatures that
cause fear. See the Psychology section for details.
Large Target: Ogres are Large Targets as defined in
the shooting rules. 
Skills: An Ogre may choose from Combat and
Strength skills when he gains new skills.
Hired swords


--- Page 31 ---
Halfling scout
15 gold crowns to hire +5 gold crowns upkeep
Halflings are diminutive creatures, generally more
concerned with the timing of their next meal (or two)
than with military pursuits. They range from three to
four feet tall, and are neither very strong nor tough,
but are naturally good shots and steadfast in the
face of danger. Some Halflings are more adventurous
than others, however, and these bold spirits are
much sought after by mercenary bands, for they are
splendid archers, and excellent cooks to boot.
May be Hired: Any warband except Skaven, Undead
and the Possessed may hire a Halfling Scout.
Rating: A Halfling Scout increases the warband’s
rating by +5 points plus 1 point for each Experience
point he has.
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Halfling 4 24221418
Equipment: Bow, dagger and a cooking pot (counts
as a helmet).
SPECIAL RULES:
Cook: Halflings are renowned for their cooking skills.
A warband with a Halfling Scout may increase its
maximum size by +1, as warriors from all around are
attracted by the smell of great food! Note that this
does not increase the maximum number of Heroes
you may have.
Skills: A Halfling may choose from Speed and
Shooting skills when he gains a new skill.
Warlock
30 gold crowns to hire +15 gold crowns upkeep
Wizards, shamans, mystics, all these and more are
associated with men who can wield the power of
magic. All magic is potentially dangerous and
originates from Chaos, so those blessed (or cursed)
with the power of sorcery are hated and feared.
Still, it is not difficult to find employment if you are
a wizard, for many are willing to take the risk of
persecution. But hiring a Warlock does not only
mean that you lose your gold – if the teachings of the
Cult of Sigmar are to be believed, your soul is at risk
as well...
May be Hired: Any warband except Witch Hunters
and Sisters of Sigmar may hire a Warlock.
Rating: A Warlock increases the warband’s rating by
+16 points plus 1 point for each Experience point he
has.
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Warlock 4 22331418
Equipment: A Warlock carries a staff.
SPECIAL RULES:
Wizard: Warlocks are magicians and have two spells
generated at random from the Lesser Magic list. See
the Magic section for details.
Skills: Warlocks may choose skills from the Academic
skills list, or they may randomly determine a new
spell from the Lesser Magic spell list.
Hired swords


--- Page 32 ---
108 108
Hired swords
Freelancer
50 gold crowns to hire +20 gold crowns upkeep
Just as warriors of the lower social orders can
become mercenaries, squires or nobles may offer
their skills for hire by becoming a Freelancer or
‘robber knight’. Freelancers are often the younger
sons of nobles, who have inherited little but their
weapons, horse and armour. Having become
disillusioned with their lot in life they have taken the
only road available to them: that of a Hired Sword.
Financial considerations take precedence over the
dictates of honour and chivalry. Many Freelancers
have drifted to the shanty towns surrounding
Mordheim, and offer their considerable strength to
the highest bidders.
May be Hired: Mercenaries and Witch Hunters may
hire Freelancers.
Rating: A Freelancer increases the warband’s rating
by +21 points plus 1 point for each Experience point
he has.
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Freelancer 4 43431417
Warhorse 8 30331315
Equipment: Heavy armour, shield, lance and sword.
If you are using the optional rules for mounted
models, a Freelancer rides a warhorse (and has the
Ride Warhorse skill from the Blazing Saddles article).
When mounted, the Freelancer has an armour saving
throw of 3+. On foot his save is 4+.
Skills: A Freelancer may choose from Combat and
Strength skills when he gains a new skill.
Elf ranger
40 gold crowns to hire +20 gold crowns upkeep
Elves are a wondrous race: lithe, tall, beautiful, long-
lived and magical. For the most part they are feared
and distrusted by humans, though some live in the
cities amongst men and offer their services as
minstrels and archers in return for a high fee.
Though Elves become rarer in the Old World each
year, there are still some roaming on the trackless
paths of the Drakwald Forest and the Forest of
Shadows.
Elves sensibly tend to avoid the ruins of Mordheim,
for in the City of the Damned there is little to attract
that fey and strange race, but sometimes they are
hired by treasure hunters, for few can match their
skill with a bow, or their inhuman quickness and
agility. The senses of an Elf are much keener than
any human’s, and they make excellent scouts.
May be Hired: Mercenaries and Witch Hunters may
hire Elf Rangers. Warbands which include Dwarfs may
hire Elf Rangers, but must pay 40 gold crowns after
each battle instead of 20.
Rating: An Elf Ranger increases the warband’s rating
by 12 points plus 1 point for each Experience point
he has.
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Elf Ranger 5 45331618
Equipment: Elf bow, sword and Elven cloak.
Skills: An Elf Ranger may choose from Shooting and
Speed skills when he gains a new skill. In addition,
there are several skills unique to Elf Rangers as
detailed below, which he can choose instead of
normal skills. Note that these special skills can only be
acquired through experience. They are not possessed
by a new recruit.
SPECIAL RULES
Seeker. When rolling on the Exploration chart, the
Elf Ranger allows you to modify one dice roll by 
-1/+1.
Excellent Sight. Elves have eyesight unmatched by
mere humans. The Elf Ranger spots Hidden enemies
from two times as far away as other warriors (ie, twice
his Initiative value in inches).
ELVEN SKILLS
Fey. Hostile magic spells will not affect the Elf on a D6
roll of 4+.
Luck. The Elf Ranger is blessed by Lileath, the Elven
goddess of luck. Once per game he may re-roll any
dice roll he makes (but not one made by other
members of the warband).
108

--- Page 33 ---
109
Hired swords
Dwarf troll slayer
25 gold crowns to hire +10 gold crowns upkeep
Troll Slayers are members of the morbid Dwarf cult
whose followers are obsessed with seeking an
honourable death in combat. Having committed
some unforgivable crime or been dishonoured in an
irredeemable way, a Dwarf will forsake his home
and wander off to die fighting the enemies of
Dwarfkind.
Troll Slayers are insanely dangerous individuals,
psychopathic and violent. However, there are few
better fighters, so they are much sought after when
warriors are needed. 
Known as ‘Hired Axes’, Troll Slayers who come to
Mordheim find plenty of opportunity to indulge their
deathwish. 
May be Hired: Mercenaries and Witch Hunters may
hire a Dwarf Troll Slayer. Warbands that include Elves
may hire Slayers, but must pay 20 gold crowns after
each battle instead of 10 gold crowns. Dwarfs won’t
put up with weak pointy-eared folk unless they have to,
or are adequately compensated for their sufferance.
Rating: A Dwarf Troll Slayer increases the warband’s
rating by 12 points plus 1 point for each Experience
point he has.
Profile M WS BS S T W I A Ld
Troll Slayer 3 43341219
Weapons/Armour: T wo axes or a double-handed axe
(the hiring player may choose).
Skills: A Troll Slayer may choose from Combat and
Strength skills when he gains a new skill. In
addition, there are several skills unique to Dwarf
Troll Slayers which he can have instead of normal
skills when he gains a new skill.
SPECIAL RULES
Deathwish. Troll
Slayers seek an
honourable
death in
combat. They
are
completely
immune to
all
psychology
and will
never need
to test if
they are
fighting
alone.
Hard to Kill. Troll Slayers are tough, resilient
individuals who can only be taken out of action on a
D6 roll of 6 instead of 5-6 when rolling on the Injury
chart. Treat a roll of 5 as stunned.
Hard Head. Troll Slayers ignore the special rules for
maces, clubs etc. They are not very easy individuals to
knock out! 
TROLL SLAYER SKILLS
Ferocious Charge. The Dwarf may double his attacks
on the turn in which he charges. He will suffer a -1 to
hit penalty on that turn.
Monster Slayer. The Troll Slayer always wounds any
opponent on a D6 roll of 4+, regardless of
Toughness, unless his own Strength (with weapon
modifiers) would mean that a lower result than this is
needed.
Berserker. The Dwarf may add +1 to his to hit rolls
during the turn in which he
charges.
109

--- Page 34 ---
Dramatis personae
111 111
T
his section details some of the strangest and
most famous (or infamous) characters to be
found in Mordheim and the outlying settlements.
Occasionally, these warriors join forces with a
warband (usually demanding wyrdstone or a bag of
gold in payment).
The following characters (known as ‘special
characters’) are hard to find and expensive to hire –
you must be lucky and wealthy to attract their
attention. 
This list does not, by any means, include all the
famous warriors and cold-hearted killers you could
encounter in Mordheim. There are famous
Dwarf gold hunters, Burgomeisters of the
Merchants’ Guild, Theodor, the
marksman of Hochland,
and many others. In fact
we hope that the
characters detailed
here will inspire
players to
invent
special
characters
of their
own.
You can only ever have one of a particular special
character in your warband. A warband may employ as
many special characters as it likes – if it can afford
them!
looking for special characters
After a battle, you can send any number of your
Heroes to look for a special character. Only Heroes
can look (Henchmen are rarely trustworthy enough).
Heroes who went out of action in the last battle are
unable to join the search because they are recovering
from their wounds. 
Heroes who are looking for a special character cannot
look for rare items. Decide which special character
you are seeking, and how many Heroes have been
sent to look for him. Roll a D6 for each searcher. If any
of the searchers rolls under his Initiative he has
located the special character. You can, of course, only
find one of a particular special character, no matter
how many searchers roll under their Initiative. 
hire fee
The warband must pay the hire fee for the special
character when he is recruited, and after each battle
he fights, including the first, you must pay an upkeep
fee. These fees are indicated in the entries. This
money comes from the warband’s treasury in the
same way as buying new weapons or recruiting new
warriors. If you don’t have enough gold to pay for the
special character he leaves the warband.
experience, 
injuries and equipment
Special characters have their own equipment. Only
they may use this equipment; it can’t be given to
other warriors. Furthermore, you cannot buy
extra weapons or equipment for a special
character. 
Special characters do not earn Experience
points, although they suffer serious injuries,
just like Heroes, if they are taken out of
action.
Each special character’s description tells
you how much to add to your
warband’s rating for including them
(taking into account their
experience and abilities).
Dramatis personae
111

--- Page 35 ---
112112
SPECIAL RULES
Invincible Swordsman. Aenur always hits his
opponents on a roll of 2+ in hand-to-hand combat.
Wanderer. Aenur only ever stays with a warband for
the duration of the battle. A warband who used Aenur
in their last battle may not seek him out
until they have fought at least one
battle without him.
Ienh-Khain (the Hand of
Khaine). Ienh-Khain is an
incredibly long single-
edged sword, which
Aenur uses with
consummate skill.
This sword allows
Aenur to parry,
adds +1 to his
Strength and
causes a
critical hit
on a roll
of 5-6
when
rolling
to
wound.
Dramatis personae
Aenur, the sword of twilight
M
any famous swordsmen have come to
Mordheim to make their fortune, but few can
match the terrifying reputation of the Elf swordsman
Aenur. This mighty warrior was responsible for
slaying the entire Possessed warband of Karl
Zimmeran, and single-handedly cleansed the Rat
Hole, a settlement that had been overrun by
Beastmen.
Rumours about Aenur’s origin abound. Elves usually
avoid human settlements, and Mordheim in
particular, but for some reason the tall, pale
swordsman has stayed in the proximity of the ruined
city for months.
Some say Aenur comes from beyond the Great Ocean,
from the fabled Elven kingdoms, and that he is the
captain of the legendary Order of Swordmasters.
Others claim that he is a Wood Elf prince in exile.
Aenur himself says little about his past and those
who are wise do not question him.
Whenever a warband prepares an expedition to
explore the inner city, there is a chance they may
hear a sharp rap at the gate of their encampment –
their unexpected visitor will be Aenur, offering his
services to their leader. 
If, indeed, Aenur seeks something in the grim ruins of
Mordheim, no-one knows what this might be. Some
say that he wishes to explore the Pit itself, and slay
the enigmatic Shadow Lord, though such a task must
surely be above even this mighty warrior. 
Aenur is tall even for an Elf, and beneath his finely
woven Elven cloak he wears armour of gleaming
ithilmar. He carries a sword of immense size which is
rumoured to have arcane properties. Certainly no-
one who has been struck by it has ever lived to tell
the tale.
Hire Fee: 150 gold crowns to hire.
May be Hired: Any warband except Skaven, Undead
and the Possessed may hire Aenur.
Rating: Aenur increases the warband’s rating by
+100 points.
MW S B S S T W I A L d
Aenur 5 8 4 4 3 2 7 3 8
Weapons/Armour: Aenur wears ithilmar armour, an
Elven cloak and carries an enormous sword known as
Ienh-Khain.
Skills: Aenur has the following skills: Strike to Injure,
Expert Swordsman, Step Aside, Sprint, Lightning
Reflexes, Dodgeand Mighty Blow.
112

--- Page 36 ---
113 113
Dramatis personae
Johann the knife
“G
et your hands off me, brute! Let go of me, and
I’ll tell you what I know. So, you seek Johann
the Knife! Take my advice, friend, do not speak his
name out loud. He does not like people talking about
him in the street. What do you seek him for anyway?
So, you’ve got a job for him! Well, why didn’t you say
so before? I cannot say where you might find him,
because I do not know myself. Who does? Anyway, no
matter. When he hears word, he will find you soon
enough! Ha! ha! It will cost you though, for he likes
gold, does Johann. He knows this city – what’s left of
it – like the back of his hand. If he can’t find
someone, no-one can. He is like a shadow, he can go
in and out of anywhere, unseen. He can also fight his 
way out of anywhere. No-
one can catch him.
As quick as lightning
with a knife, he is!
No traces, all very
neat and
tidy. All I
need from
you is the
gold, and the
name. Johann
will do the
rest.”
Conversation
overheard in
Mordheim
Of the many cutthroats and assassins for hire that
infest the settlements around Mordheim, Johann the
Knife is the most famous. He exhibits his vocation as
hired knife-fighter and assassin extraordinaire by the
various lethal-looking daggers hanging from his belt,
and the mean glint of his eyes. Johann wears dark
leather gear, slightly out of fashion, which has never
been washed (or so the barmaids say). His long face
bears the scars of many a fight, and his unkempt hair
is lank and greasy.
Johann’s purse is always heavy with gold, and he takes
no trouble to hide it, since only a fool would try to
steal it from him. Many have tried, and all have died…
very quickly. The craftsmanship and quality of
Johann’s daggers is beyond compare, as he has taken
them from the bodies of the many wealthy, but
unskilful, opponents he has despatched in vicious
duels.
Hire Fee: 70 gold crowns to hire; +30 gold crowns
upkeep cost. Johann is addicted to Crimson Shade, so
you may hire him for one portion of Crimson Shade if
you wish.
May be Hired: Any warband except Skaven, Undead
and the Possessed may hire Johann.
Rating: Johann the Knife increases a warband’s rating
by +60 points.
MW S B S S T W I A L d
Johann 4 3 6 4 3 2 6 1 7
Weapons/Armour: Johann is armed with countless
throwing knives and several long daggers (he always
counts as having two swords in close combat). His
weapons are always coated with Black Lotus and he
may take Crimson Shade before a battle if you want
him to.
SKILLS
Johann has the following skills: Dodge, Scale Sheer
Surfaces, Quick Shot, Eagle Eyes and Knife Fighter. 
SPECIAL RULES
Knife Fighter Extraordinaire: Johann has a
deserved reputation for being the greatest knife-
fighter in whole of the Empire. Unlike normal
warriors, he can combine the Knife Fighter and
Quick Shot skills (yes, he can throw six
throwing knives in one turn if he does not
move!).
113

--- Page 37 ---
114114
Dramatis personae
Y
ears ago, Bertha sought refuge in the strict
discipline and devotions of the Sisters of Sigmar.
Only the warrior god of the Empire was worthy of
her esteem. Only He was constant and faithful. And
had not holy Sigmar, in truth, chosen her to be one of
his handmaidens? 
The pure blood of the Unberogens runs in Bertha’s
veins, as evinced by her long golden plaits and fierce
blue eyes, which can freeze a Goblin at twenty paces
with an icy glare. Even her voice commands
authority, turning strong, hairy-thewed men into
trembling wretches. 
The Sisters look up to Bertha as an example of holy
womanhood. She rose rapidly through the ranks of
the Sisterhood, and on her deathbed the revered
Matriarch Cassandra named Bertha her successor,
new High Matriarch, and Abedissa of Sigmar’s Rock. 
Sometimes, as Bertha straps on her Gromril armour
in the light of dawn, she reflects on the lost innocence
of her youth. Then, angrily, she tightens the studded
leather straps tightly over her iron-hard limbs and
strides outside to spend hours practising with her
great warhammers, preparing herself, as a bride of
Sigmar should, for the day of battle.
Extract from the Tome of Heroes
Hire Fee: None. Bertha will come to the aid of any
Sisters of Sigmar warband if they send one or more of
their Heroines to look for her in the normal manner,
rolling under their Initiative (representing their
efforts to gain audience with the High Matriarch). If
she does grant an audience, she might decide that her
personal help is needed in the forthcoming battle.
She will only come to the aid of a Sisters of Sigmar
warband if their enemy has a higher warband rating.
Consult the table below, and roll a D6 to see whether
Bertha will aid the warband. A request for Bertha to
aid the warband must be made for each battle you
wish her to help the warband.
Difference in
Warband Rating Dice roll required
0-49 Nil
50-99 6+
100-149 5+
150-199 4+
200+ 3+
MW S B S S T W I A L d
Bertha 4 5 3 44243 1 0
May be Hired: Bertha Bestraufrung will
only join Sisters of Sigmar warbands.
Rating: Bertha increases a warband’s
rating by +105 points.
Weapons/Armour: Bertha is armed with two
Sigmarite warhammers, wears gromril armour, and
carries a vial of blessed water and a holy relic.
SKILLS
Bertha has the following skills: Mighty Blow,
Unstoppable Charge and Righteous Fury.
PRAYERS OF SIGMAR
Bertha knows all six Prayers of Sigmar.
SPECIAL RULES
High Matriarch. As the High Matriarch of the Sisters
of Sigmar’s Mercy, Bertha will automatically
be the leader of any warband she
joins. 
Sigmar’s Handmaiden.
Bertha is favoured above all
other Sisters in the eyes of
Sigmar. She gains +2 to
all her rolls to see
whether her Prayers
of Sigmar are
granted.
114
Bertha Bestraufrung, high matriarch of the sisterhood

--- Page 38 ---
115 115
“I
t killed us all! We couldn’t stop it, our weapons
broke against its body... It was black, like a
shadow, and it was moving so fast, cutting men to
shreds left and right. We fought, yes we fought hard,
and old Marcus even tried his trick with the oil flask.
It was engulfed by flames and for a moment we
thought we’d stopped it. No way, it came out of the
fire, still ablaze. It was as if it didn’t care! That was
too much and those left of us ran for it. Still it
followed us, on and on, relentless and merciless.
There was no escaping, no hiding, its red eye could
always spot you. Oh that eye... that eye...”
Last words of Fritz Huber at the Inn of the Red Moon,
Veskit was already a talented
clan Eshin Assassin when
he was entrusted with his
most difficult mission.
He was hired by Clan
Skryre to free one of
their oldest and most
experienced
Warlocks who was
being held hostage
by a rival clan.
Dramatis personae
Veskit, high executioner of clan eshin
Veskit managed to take the prisoner back, fighting his
way through the guards, but at a very high cost. He
suffered terrible wounds and would have certainly
died, but the Nightmaster of Clan Eshin made a pact
with the Warlock Engineers. The Skaven scientist-
sorcerers replaced various parts of Veskit’s body with
their part technological, part magical implants and
made him into a walking arsenal of deadly weapons.
Veskit is now more a machine than a living thing, and
his thirst for killing has become almost
uncontrollable.
When news of the wyrdstone came to the hidden
fortress of Clan Eshin, the Nightmaster sent Veskit to
Mordheim to deter the man-things from exploring the
city, which rightfully belonged to the Skaven. From
that day on, many adventurers have met their end in
the dark allies of Mordheim. Veskit’s unblinking eye
misses nothing, and those he hunts on the streets of
Mordheim never return to the Gargoyle Gate.
Hire Fee: 80 gold crowns to hire; +35 gold crowns
upkeep cost.
May be Hired: Veskit may only be hired by Skaven
warbands.
Rating: Veskit increases the warband’s rating by +70
points.
MW S B S S T W I A L d
Veskit 5 5 4 4 4 2 5 4 8
Weapons/Armour: Eshin Fighting Claws (the extra
attack is included in his profile). Each Fighting Claw
incorporates an in-built warplock pistol, so Veskit can
shoot in every turn, and he fights in close combat with
Strength 5 and a save modifier of -3 (note that he
can still parry twice with his claws!).
SPECIAL RULES
Unfeeling. Veskit is a cold, calculating
killing machine, and feels few of the
emotions that living things do. He is
therefore immune to all psychology.
No Pain. Veskit ignores knocked down and
stunned results on the Injury chart. He
must lose his last wound and be taken
out of action before he is removed
from battle.
Unblinking Eye. Thanks to the
sorcerous devices built by the Warlock
Engineers of Clan Skryre, Veskit can spot
hidden enemies within twice his Initiative
value in inches.
Metallic Body. These give Veskit his high
Toughness and a 3+ armour save.  
115

--- Page 39 ---
Optional rules
116116 116
T
his section includes a variety of rules that add
an extra dimension to your battles in
Mordheim. As they are additions to the basic rules
they are not an essential part of the game, and you
should agree with your opponent beforehand
whether you are going to use any of them.
We recommend that new players ignore this section
to begin with, at least until you are familiar with the
way the game works. If you consider yourself to be an
experienced gamer then you’ll have no problem
incorporating these elements. Some of these
additional rules alter the game quite dramatically, and
you are under no obligation to use any of them. They
have simply been included for players who want to
explore different aspects of
the game.
New critical hit charts
Depending on what weapon your warrior is using,
you may roll on one of the following Critical Hit
charts. For example, if your warrior is using a sword,
roll on the Bladed Weapons chart. All the rules
governing critical hits given in the main rules also
apply to these tables.
missile weapons
(Bows, crossbows, 
blackpowder weapons, throwing knives etc.)
1-2 Hits a Weak Spot. The missile penetrates its
target’s armour. Ignore all armour saves.
3-4 Ricochet. If there are any other models within
6", the closest enemy model is also hit. Roll to
wound and take any saves as normal for both
targets.
5-6 Master Shot. The missile hits an eye, the
throat, or some other vulnerable part. The
target suffers 2 wounds instead of 1. There is
no armour save.
bludgeoning weapons
(Clubs, maces, hammers, 
flails, double-handed hammers etc.)
1-2 Hammered. The target is knocked off
balance. Your opponent may not fight this
turn if he hasn’t already fought.
3-4 Clubbed. The hit ignores armour saves and
saves from helmets.
5 Wild Sweep. Your opponent’s weapon is
knocked from his hand. If he is carrying two
weapons, roll to see which one he loses. He
must fight with whatever back-up weapon he
has in his equipment for the rest of this
combat (or fight unarmed if he has no other
weapons). Roll to wound and take armour
saves as normal.
6 Bludgeoned. The victim automatically goes
out of action if he fails his armour
save. Even if he has several wounds
remaining, he will be taken out of
action by this attack.
Optional rules
116


--- Page 40 ---
bladed weapons
(Swords, axes, double-handed swords etc.)
1-2 Flesh Wound. This attack hits an unprotected
area, so there is no armour save.
3-4 Bladestorm. The warrior unleashes a virtual
hail of blows. The attack causes 2 wounds
instead of 1. Take armour saves separately for
each wound. Remember that, as with other
critical hits, if an attack causes multiple
wounds for other reasons as well, you choose
the highest number of wounds.
5-6 Sliced! The strike ignores armour
saves, causes 2 wounds, and your
warrior gains +2 to any Injury rolls.
unarmed combat
(Wardogs, warhorses, 
Zombies, Possessed, animals etc.)
1-2 Body Blow. Your opponent staggers, allowing
you to seize the initiative and make an
additional attack. Immediately roll to hit and
to wound. Any saves are taken as normal.
3-4 Crushing Blow. The blow lands with
tremendous force. You gain +1 to the Injury
roll if your opponent fails his save.
5-6 Mighty Blow. With a mighty punch or flying
kick, you send your opponent sprawling to
the ground. The attack ignores armour saves
and you gain +2 to any Injury rolls.
thrusting weapons
(Spears, halberds, lances etc.)
1-2 Stab. With a quick strike, you penetrate your
opponent’s defences. You gain +1 to any
Injury rolls. Armour saves are taken as normal.
3-4 Thrust. The thrust lands with great force and
the target is knocked down. Take armour
saves as normal and see whether the model
suffers a wound.
5-6 Kebab! The thrust knocks the target back with
titanic force, ripping apart armour and
puncturing flesh. The attack ignores armour
saves and you gain +2 to any Injury rolls. The
victim is knocked backwards D6" and the
attacker follows, staying in base contact. Any
other models involved in the combat are
separated and only the model which struck
the blow and his target are still considered
to be in combat. If the target collides with
another model, the other model is hit once
at S3.
117 117117
Optional rules
Escaping from combat
Warriors that are engaged in hand-to-hand combat at
the start of their own turn may try to escape from
combat during their movement phase. Such fighters
are assumed to have realised that the odds are against
them and decided that it is just too dangerous for
them to continue.
Declare which of your warriors will try to escape from
combat at the start of your movement phase, at the
same time as you declare charges. Turn the models
around to show this.
Take a Leadership test for each warrior trying to
escape from combat. This represents his efforts to
find the right time to escape. If he passes, the warrior
can move up to double his normal Movement rate
away from combat and the enemy he was fighting, in
any direction.
If he fails, his opponent is allowed to make 1
automatic hit against the warrior who is trying to
escape, and the fleeing warrior (provided he survives)
will run 2D6" directly away from combat. He will have
to take a Leadership test at the beginning of his next
turn. 
If successful he will stop, but may not do anything
else during that turn. If the test is failed, he will
continue to run 2D6" towards the closest table edge
and must test again the following turn if he is still on
the table.
If a warrior is charged whilst he is fleeing, the 
charger is moved into base contact with
him as normal, but the fleeing warrior
will then immediately run a
further 2D6"
towards the table
edge, before any
blows can be
struck.
117

--- Page 41 ---
118118 118
7-8 Mutation. The warrior develops a severe
mutation. Roll a D6. On a roll of 1 you lose
a single point from one of your warrior’s
characteristics (chosen by you), due to
atrophy, or some such degrading mutation.
On a roll of 2 or more you may choose
which one of the mutations listed in the
Cult of the Possessed Warbands section
your warrior has been rewarded with.
9-10 Chaos Armour. The
warrior’s body becomes
encrusted with an arcane, all-
enveloping suit of armour. This
confers a basic 4+ save, but does
not affect the model’s ability to
cast spells or move in any way.
11 Daemon Weapon. The
warrior receives  a weapon with
a bound Daemon inside it. This
weapon adds +1 to his Strength
in close combat, grants a +1
bonus on all to hit rolls using it.
The user may choose the
weapon’s form (a sword, an axe,
etc), though it will not have any
of the special abilities normally
associated with common
weapons of that type. An axe
with a bound Daemon, for
example, will not
benefit from the
usual extra save
modifier.
12 Possessed! A Daemon
takes over the soul and body of
the warrior. He immediately
gains +1 Weapon Skill, +1
Strength, +1 Attacks and +1
Wounds. These increases do not
count towards his maximum
characteristics. The warrior loses
D3 of his skills (chosen by the
player) and may no longer use
weapons or armour, except for
Chaos Armour or Daemon
weapons.
Rewards of the shadowlord
When a Magister or Mutant from a Possessed warband has accumulated enough 
experience, instead of picking a skill, he may roll on the Rewards table below. This 
represents the pilgrimage of the Mutant or Magister to the Pit, where he can beseech 
a favour from the Shadowlord himself. Roll 2D6.
2 Wrath of the Shadowlord! The warrior is
mutated beyond recognition and vanishes
into the ruins, joining the many other
horrors that roam Mordheim.
3-6 Nothing Happens. The
capricious Shadowlord
ignores the pleas of his
servant.
118


--- Page 42 ---
Optional rules
119 119119
Horses are rare and expensive in Mordheim, but they do allow warriors to move
quickly, so as long as the steed stays on the streets and does not venture into the
ruined buildings, where it could easily stumble and fall. By using the following rules,
you can include mounted Heroes in your games. 
mounted models in mordheim
A warrior and his horse are treated in all respects as a
single model. Should the rider be taken out of action,
then the entire model is removed from the battle.
Mounted warriors use the rider’s Leadership value for
all Leadership-based tests. When the warrior is
attacked, use the rider’s Toughness and Wounds. 
Mounted warriors automatically have an armour save
of 6+, even if the rider is wearing no armour. This
represents the extra protection afforded by the horse.
If the rider is wearing armour his armour save will be
+1 better than it would be if he were on foot.
In close combat, a warhorse can make 1 attack, but a
normal horse has no Attacks characteristic and
therefore does not attack in close combat.
Armour, called barding, may be purchased for a
warhorse, (refer to the Trading chart). It adds a further
+1 bonus to the model’s armour save, but subtracts
one from its Movement. A normal horse may not wear
barding. A barded warhorse is only killed on a serious
injury roll of ‘1’ if the model goes out of action.
A horse increases a warband’s rating by +3
points, and a warhorse by +5 points.
mounted models
and movement
Mounted models may not move into
buildings. This limits their movement to
relatively flat surfaces such as streets.
A horse or warhorse may jump over an
obstacle up to 2" in height with no
movement penalty.
shooting at 
mounted warriors
Because of the size of a mounted warrior,
any shooter may always pick one as a target,
even if there are enemies closer. 
mounting/dismounting
A mounted warrior may dismount during his
movement phase. He loses half his movement
and may not charge or run during that turn.
Mounted warriors
A cavalryman who has dismounted is considered to be
followed by his steed wherever he goes and may
mount it again whenever he wishes, provided he is
not inside a building or in any other place where the
mount could not be used (such as on a roof). The
warrior loses half his movement when remounting
and may not charge or run during that turn.
Replace a mounted warrior with a model that is on
foot if dismounting, and vice versa.
mounts and campaigns
If a mounted warrior is taken out of action, roll a D6
after the battle. On a 1-2, the mount is killed and
removed from the warband roster.
119

--- Page 43 ---
D
uring the period in which Mordheim is set, the
technology needed to make blackpowder
weapons was still rare, and pistols, handguns,
blunderbusses, etc were prone to malfunctions, jams
and misfires.
The following rules were not included in the
Shooting section, as they would have slowed down
the game, but if you want to create more realistic
games, feel free to use the Misfire rules below. 
If you do use these rules, you might want to reduce
the cost of the weapons (we suggest by 20%) to keep
the balance of the game fair.
misfires
Each time you roll a 1 when rolling to hit with a
blackpowder weapon (handgun, pistol, blunderbuss,
warplock pistol, etc), roll a D6 and consult the chart
below.
BLACKPOWDER WEAPON MISFIRES
1 BOOM! The weapon explodes with a
deafening roar! The shooter suffers an S4 hit
(this does not cause critical hits) and the
weapon is destroyed.
2 Jammed. The weapon is jammed and useless
for the remainder of the battle. You may use
it as normal in the next battle.
3 Phut . The weapon fails to fire and you must
remove the shot. This means that the shooter
must wait one extra turn before he can fire
this weapon again.
4-5 Click. The weapon fails to fire, but there is
no additional effect.
6 KA-BOOM! The weapon roars and spits a
cloud of black smoke and flame! The shot
hits the intended target and counts as having
+1 Strength. 
Blackpowder weapons
120

--- Page 44 ---
Optional rules
121 121121
O
ne thing we discovered during playtesting
Mordheim was that after a while very
experienced warbands became virtually unbeatable
when fighting against novice warbands.
Whilst this might be amusing for the player with the
experienced warband, it will result in a very one-
sided battle, where the inexperienced
warband is swiftly crushed, without even a
chance to put up a decent fight. Although the
underdogs system balances this out somewhat, it is
often much more fun to play with roughly equal
forces, especially when introducing new players to
the game.
The following rules allow both players to pick
warbands up to an agreed equal value, say 1,000 gold
crowns. This will make the game much more even, as
the two forces will be roughly similar in strength. 
Use the Warband lists to recruit and equip your
warband. The lists tell you which Heroes, Henchmen
and equipment your warband is allowed to use. The
limitations of the list ensure that the warbands are
reasonably balanced. 
You must recruit at least three warriors, including a
leader, and you may either follow the limitations for
the maximum size of a warband given in the list or
agree a maximum size with your opponent.
weapons & armour
Each Hero you recruit may be armed with one or
more weapons and any armour chosen from the
appropriate list. Different types of Hero are restricted
to different types of weapon. The Equipment lists for
the individual warbands tell you exactly what
equipment is available. You may buy rare weapons
and armour. Pay the appropriate prices for these as
given in the Trading charts. 
Every model in each Henchman group must take
exactly the same weapons and armour. This means
that if your Henchman group has four warriors, and
you want to buy them swords, you must buy four
swords. 
The weapons you choose for your warriors must be
represented on the models. This way your opponent
will know what he is facing (and he will not be
shocked to discover in the middle of the game that
the warrior who looks like a Halfling with a bow is in
fact an Ogre with a club!). 
The exceptions to this rule are knives and daggers,
which you may assume are tucked in boots or
concealed in their clothes, if not actually represented
on the model.
upgrading heroes
In a campaign game, you must earn statistic increases,
but in one-off games they can be bought beforehand.
You may increase the starting characteristics of your
Heroes by paying the cost in gold crowns given below. 
Note that all races have maximum statistics values.
These can be found in the Experience section of this
rulebook.
Movement +15gc per point.
Weapon Skill +15gc per point.
Ballistic Skill +15gc per point.
Strength +25gc for the first increase/+35gc
for each additional increase.
Toughness +30gc for the first increase/+45gc
for each additional increase.
Wounds +20gc for the first increase/+30gc
for each additional increase.
Initiative +10gc per point.
Attacks +25 GC for the first increase/+35gc
for each additional increase.
Leadership +15gc per point.
Skills: +40gc for each skill. You may
choose one skill at this price for
each characteristic increase you
take. Choose from the skills
normally available to your
warrior.
ready for battle
The warband is now ready to fight against
your opponent.
Fighting individual battles
